[[p 1]]
KITAB AL-IRSHAD 


THE BOOK OF GUIDANCE INTO THE LIVES OF THE 
TWELVE IMAMS 


By: 
SHAYKH AL-MUFID 


Translated by: 
I. K. A. Howarp B.a., M.a., PH.D. 


(Lecturer in Arabic and Islamic Studies at the University of Edinburgh) 


With a perface by Seyyed Hossein Nasr 


Arabic Letter 


| 


LAAA © 


Ga OO a he Ge Ge ea 


ce G&G 7 CG (f G 


aes 


TRANSLITERATION 


Transliteration 


Or. 


\O Oy 


G = 
Ne) Oy Ov. 


’ 


in se age. Gs 
Or \1O Orv OY 


Short Vowels 


Long Vowels 


Diphthongs 


cl 


| 


aw 

ay 

lyy 
UuWwW 


Persian / Urdu Letters 


S 


a 


ty ve 


p 
ch 


zh 
g 


ol yl al ae 


IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, 
THE MERCIFUL, THE COMPASSIONATE 


de eghe LS wnt SI dey HF Je be eal 
JT dey et Ne Sky erly! ST dey erly! 
Eb) eal al JT ley aaah pl de eb LS wt 

At Ag 


O ALLAH, SEND PEACE UNTO MUHAMMAD AND THE PROGENY 
OF MUHAMMAD AS YOU WERE SENDING PEACE UNTO IBRAHIM 
AND THE PROGENY OF IBRAHIM. AND SEND BLESSINGS UNTO 
MUHAMMAD AND THE PROGENY OF MUHAMMAD AS YOU WERE 
SENDING BLESSINGS UNTO IBRAHIM AND THE PROGENY OF 
IBRAHIM. SURELY YOU ARE THE MOST PRAISEWORTHY, THE MOST 
GLORIOUS 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


PREFACE BY SEYYED HOSSEIN NASR 
INTRODUCTION 
PREFACE - SHAYKH AL-MUFID 


PARTI 
THE LIFE OF THE 
COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 
‘ALI B. ABI TALIB

[[p 2]]
CHAPTER I 
BACKGROUND TO THE LIFE 
OF THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


Introduction 
Reports of him, Peace be on him, Mentioning and Knowing about 
the Event (of his Death) before its Occurrence 


Reports which have come down of the Motive for his Murder and 
of how the Event occurred 


Reports about the Place of the Grave of the Commander of 
the Faithful, Peace be on him, and an Explanation of the 
Circumstances of his Burial

[[p 3]]
CHAPTER II 
VIRTUES, QUALITIES AND ACHIEVEMENTS 
OF THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


Reports of his Priority in Belief in Allah and His Apostle, of his 
Being the First of all responsible Men in (Faith) 

Reports of his Outstanding Merit, Peace be on him, over 
Everybody in Religious Knowledge ( ‘J/m) 

Reports of his Outstanding Merit, the Blessing of Allah be on him 


XIX 


11 


16 


19 


21 
23 


Reports of Love for him, Peace be on him, Being a Sign of Faith 
(in a Person) and Hatred of him Being a Sign of Hypocrisy (in a 
Person) 
Reports of him, Peace be on him, and his Shi‘a Being the 
Successful Ones 
Reports of Friendship to him, Peace be on him, Being a Sign of 
Good Birth and Enmity to him Being a Sign of Disgraceful (Birth) 
Reports of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, Naming him, Peace be on him, Commander of the 
Faithful, during (the Prophet’s) Lifetime 
His Qualities 

1. The Meeting of the Banu ‘Abd al-Muttalib 

2. Circumstances of the Prophet’s Emigration from Mecca 

3. The Commander of the Faithful fulfils the Prophet’s 

Obligations in Mecca 

4. The Commander of the Faithful puts right the Crimes 
committed by Khalid b. Walid 
Keeping the Conquest of Mecca Secret 
The Carrying of the Standard at the Conquest of Mecca 
The Conversion of Yemen 
Taking up the Standard at Khaybar 
Delivery of the Verses of Renunciation in Mecca 


OOO MN

[[p 4]]
CHAPTER III 
THE Mivitary ExpLoits 
OF THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 
The Battle of Badr 
The Battle of Uhud 
The Campaign against the Banti al-Nadir. 
The Campaign against the Allies (Ahzab) 
The Campaign against the Banti Qurayza 
The Campaign of Dhat al-Salasil 
The Campaign against the Banti al-Mustaliq 
The Expedition to al-Hudaybiyya 
The Campaign against Khaybar 


25 


25 


26 


Deh 


29 
31 


32 


33 
35 
3) 
38 
40 
4] 


43 
50 
60 
61 
71 
74 
77 
78 
82 


The Conquest of Mecca 

The Campaign against Hunayn 

Expeditions to Awtas and al-Ta’if 

The Expedition to Tabik and the Commander of the Faithful’s 
Deputising for the Prophet at Medina 

The Campaign against ‘Amr b. Ma‘dikarib 

The Campaign of (Dhat) al-Salasil

[[p 5]]
CHAPTER IV 
THE ROLE OF THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 
IN THE Last YEAR OF THE PROPHET’S LIFE 
The Deputation of Christians from Najran and the Contest of 
Prayer. 
The Prophet’s Farewell Pilgrimage and the Declaration at Ghadir 
Khumm 
The Circumstances of the Last Illness and Death of the Prophet.

[[p 6]]
CHAPTER V 
LEGAL DECISIONS OF 
THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 
A. (Judgements of the Commander of the Faithful during the 
Lifetime of the Prophet) 
1. His Judgements in Yemen 
2. A Case outside Yemen during the Life of the Prophet 
B. Judgements of the Commander of the Faithful during the Rule 
of Abt Bakr. 
C. Reports of the Judgements of (the Commander of the Faithful) 
during the Rule of ‘Umar b. al-Khattab 
D. Reports of the Judgements of the Commander of the Faithful 
during the Rule of ‘Uthman b. ‘Affan 
E. Reports of the Judgements of (the Commander of the Faithful), 
peace be on him, after the Pledge of Allegiance of the General 
Populace to him and the Death of ‘Uthman 


86 
93 
101 


103 
106 
110 


113 


116 
123 


134 
135 
137 
139 
141 


148 


150

[[p 7]]
CHAPTER VI 
MEMORABLE Worps AND SPEECHES 
OF THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


His Words about Allah 160 
His Words about Knowledge ( ‘Z/m) 163 
His Words concerning Heresy 166 
His Words about this World and the Next 167 
His Words about Companions, Ascetics and his Shi‘a 169 
His Words concerning Death 170 
Speeches Urging Men to Himself and his Family 171 
Speeches about those who refrained from Pledging Allegiance to 

him and those who broke their Pledge 174 
His Words before and after the Battle of the Camel 180 
His Words about the Campaign against Mu‘awiya and the Battle 

of Siffin 185 
His Words about the Truce and the Revolt of the Kharijites 190 
His Words concerning the Syrian Raids after the Truce 192 
His Words about the Succession and Men’s Desertion of him 200 


Some of his Words of Wisdom and Warning, Peace be on him 206

[[p 8]]
CHAPTER VII 
SOME OF THE MIRACLES OF THE 
COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


The Miracle of his Wisdom while still a Boy 214 
The Miracle of his Military Prowess 215 
The Miracle of the Survival of his Reputation and his Family 

despite Suppression and Oppression 216 
The Prophecies and Inner Knowledge of the Commander of the 

Faithful 219 
His Miraculous Strength at Khaybar 235 
The Miracle of Moving the Rock and the Water under it 236 
His Miraculous Victory over the Jinn 240 


His Sending back the Sun 244 


The Miracle of Speaking to the Fish 
The Commander of the Faithful and the Jinn 
Some other miracles of The Commander of the Faithful

[[p 9]]
CHAPTER VIII 


THE CHILDREN OF THE 
COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


PART II 
THE LIVES OF THE OTHER IMAMS

[[p 10]]
CHAPTER I 
IMAM AL-HASAN B. ‘ALI 

Al-Hasan’s Succession to the Caliphate and his Abdication 
Reports of the Cause of the Death of al-Hasan, Peace be on him, 
and of Mu‘awiya Poisoning him, the Story of his burial and the 
Actions and Statements concerning that 
An Account of the Number and Names of the Children of al-Hasan 
b. ‘Ali, Peace be on them, and an Extract from the Reports about 
them

[[p 11]]
CHAPTER II 

IMAM AL-HUSAYN B. ‘ALI 
The account of the martyrdom of al-Husayn 
The names of the members of the house who were killed with 
al-Husayn at Karbala 
A sample of the outstanding virtues of Al-Husayn b. “Ali, peace be 
upon him, the Merit in visiting (his Grave) and the Mention of his 
Tragedy 
An account of the Children of al-Husayn, peace be upon them 


246 
247 
248 


251 


254 
259 


261 


264 


270 
243 


346 


347 
Soe

[[p 12]]
CHAPTER III 
IMAM ‘ALI B. AL-HUSAYN 
A brief survey of the Reports about ‘Alt b. Al-Husayn, peace be 
upon him 
An account of the Children of ‘Alt b. Al-Husayn, peace be upon 
them

[[p 13]]
CHAPTER IV 
IMAM MUHAMMAD B. ‘ALI AL-BAQIR 


An Account of his Brothers and an Extract of the Reports about 
them 


An Account of the Children of Abu Ja‘far (Muhammad b. ‘Al}), 
Peace be on them, their Number and their Names

[[p 14]]
CHAPTER V 
IMAM JA‘FAR B. MUHAMMAD AL-SADIQ 


An Extract from the Accounts of Abu ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far b. 
Muhammad al-Sadiq, Peace be on them and from his Words. 

The Number of Abt ‘Abd Allah’s (Ja‘far’s) Children, their Names 
and an Extract of the Reports about them

[[p 15]]
CHAPTER VI 
IMAM MUSA AL-KAZIM 

The Designation (Nass) of (Imam Misa) for the Imamate by his 
Father, Peace be on them. 
An Extract of the Proofs, Signs, Indications and Miracles which 
Abi al-Hasan Misa (presented) 
A Sample of his Virtues, Outstanding Qualities and Merits by 
which he was distinguished from others 
Reports about the Reason for him Being Killed and a Sample of the 
Accounts about that 
An Account of the number of his Sons and an Extract from the 
Reports about them 


353 


355 


364 


366 


374 


378 


380 


388 


401 


407 


407 


All 


418 


422 


428

[[p 16]]
CHAPTER VII 
IMAM ‘ALI B. MUSA AL-RIDA 43] 
An Extract from the Reports about the Death of al-Rida, ‘Alt b. 


Musa, Peace be on them and about its Cause 447 


CHAPTER VIUI 
IMAM MUHAMMAD B. ‘ALI AL-JAWAD 450 
An Outline of the Nomination and Indication of Abu Ja‘far 
Muhammad b. ‘Alt (al-Jawad) for the Imamate by his Father 450 
An Extract from the Reports, Proofs and Miracles of Abt Ja‘far 
al-Jawad), Peace be on him 454 
The Death of Abu Ja‘far (al-Jawad), Peace be on him, its Cause, 
the Place of his Grave and the Account of his Children 464

[[p 17]]
CHAPTER IX 
IMAM ‘ALI B. MUHAMMAD AL-HADI 465 
An Extract from the Reports of his Nomination for the Imamate 
and of his Being Indicated for the Succession 465 


A Survey of the Evidence for Abi al-Hasan, ‘Ali b. Muhammad 
(al-Hadi), Peace be on him, his Proof and his Explanations 467 
The Account of the Coming of Abii al-Hasan, (al-Hadi), Peace be 
on him, from Medina to al-‘ Askar, his Death there and the Cause 
of it, the Number of his Children and a Survey of Reports about 
him 473

[[p 18]]
CHAPTER X 
IMAM AL-HASAN B. ‘ALI AL-‘ASKARI 416 


A Survey of the Reports put forward concerning his Nomination 
by his Father, Peace be on them, and the Indication of him for the 
Imamate after him 


The Account of the Death of Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. ‘Alt (al- 


‘Askari), Peace be on him, the Place of his Grave and the Report 
about his Son. 491

[[p 19]]
CHAPTER XI 
THE TWELFTH IMAM 493 


Extract from the Evidence for the Imamate of the one who will 
undertake to (bring about) Truth (a/-Qa’im bi-al-Haqq), the Son of 
al-Hasan, Peace be on them 494 
Reports of the Nomination of the Imamate of the Leader of the Rest 

of time (Sahib al-Zaman), the Twelfth of the Imams, the ney 

of God on them all, and an Explanation of the Evidence 


An Account of those who saw the Twelfth Imam, Peace be on him, 
Extract from the Evidence, Proof and Signs for the Leader for = 
(Rest of) Time 501 
The Signs of the Reappearance (Qiyadm) of the (Imam) who 
undertakes the Office (a/-OQa’im), Peace be on him, the Period of 


Time of his Appearance, an Explanation of his Life and an Extract 
of what is revealed about his State 510 


CONCLUSION = : 


BIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


PREFACE 


The whole field of Islamic studies, and especially as it concerns the Twelve- 
Imam Shi‘ism, has suffered until now from the paucity of reliable translations of 
primary sources in English. Analyses and descriptions have abounded while the 
arduous task of translating basic writing from Arabic, Persian and other Islamic 
languages has attracted relatively few scholars. It is therefore with particular joy 
that one is confronted in the pages that follow with a rendering into English of 
one of the most famous works of Shi‘ism by one of the pillars of Shr‘ite learning, 
the Shaykh al-Mufid. 


Aba Abdullah Muhammad al-Haritht al-Baghdadi, known as al-Shaykh al- 
Mufid and also Ibn al-Mu‘allim (the Son of the Teacher), who was born in 
336/948 or 338/950 and who died in 413/1022, is one of the foremost figures 
of Shi‘ite history. A student of the Ibn Babiyah al-Qummi, the great teacher 
of jurisprudence, the science of traditions (Aadith) and theology in the 4°/10" 
century, Shaykh al-Mufid was in turn the teacher of such celebrated Shr‘ite 
theologians as al-Shaykh al-Murtada. The author of some 170 treatises 
concermed almost completely with theology, jurisprudence, hadith and sacred 
history, Shaykh al-Mufid soon became one of the main figures of Shi‘ism and 
his works came to occupy a priviledged position in the traditional schools of 
Shi‘ite learning. Over the centuries his writings have continued to enjoy great 
prominence in scholarly circles and also popularity as far as certain of his less 
obstruse treatises are concerned. To this day his writings remain, along with 
those of his teacher Ibn Babiyah, al-Kulayni and Shaykh Muhammad al-Tisi 
the core of the theological and juridicial curricula of Shi‘ite madrasahs. 


The particular significance of Shaykh al-Mufid in the history of Shi‘ism is that 
he constitutes a bridge between the school of earlier Shi‘ism adhering strictly 
to the hadith and usually referred to as “traditional” and the more rational 
interpretation of theology to be seen in the later period. Moreover, Shaykh 
al-Mufid lived at a time of intense intellectual activity that permitted the 
composition of the imposing edifice which constitutes his writings. His life 
coincided with the Buyid domination of Persia and Iraq. Being Shi‘ite and 
yet ruling over a pre-dominantly Sunni population, the Buyids sought to deal 
even-handedly with the two major denominations over whom they ruled and 
gave much greater freedom to intellectual activity among Shi‘ites than had been 
hitherto possible. The city of Baghdad from which they ruled their empire, was 
a notable center of both Sunni and Shr‘ite learning. Their court was witness 
to the presence of both Abu Bakr al-Baqillani, who was the most outstanding 
propagator of Ash‘arite theology of the late 4/10" and early 5"/11" centuries 


and Shaykh al-Mufid who stood as foremost among the scholars of the Shi‘ite 
community. History has in fact recorded some of the interactions, debates 
and controversies between these two leading authorities of Sunni and Shi‘ite 
theology. 


Shaykh al-Mufid resided in Baghdad and occasionally even suffered political 
persecution as in 409/1018 when he was banished from the city following a 
violent riot caused by clashes between certain segments of the Sunni and Shr‘ite 
community. But he was intellectually more an heir to the centers of Shi‘ite 
learning in Qum and Khurasan whose “traditional” perspective he combined 
with the more “rational” approach of the Nawbakthi family which has often 
been compared with the perspective of the Mu‘tazilites. Shaykh al-Mufid 
introduced into Shi‘ite kalam the element of “intellectual introspection” or 
nazar, usually translated as reason, which was to mark the work of his immediate 
student Shaykh al-Murtada and which was to lead finally to the first systematic 
exposition of Shi‘ite kalam by Nasir al-Din al-Tist in the 7"/13" century in his 
Kitab al-tajrid. 


The concept of nazar itself in its full meaning as used in Shi‘ite kalam on the 
one hand and in Islamic philosophy on the other, is of great importance for an 
understanding of the incessant debates between the mutakallimtin and the 
philosophers and also the Shi‘ite scholars and the Mu‘tazilites. As far as Shaykh 
al-Mufid himself was concerned, he did not display much interest in philosophy 
and was in fact opposed to it to the extent that he dealt with its teachings in 
contrast to later Shi‘ite theologians such as al-Tisi, ‘Allamah al-Hilli, Sayyid 
Haydar Amuli and ‘Abd ar-Razzaq Lahiji, who were at once mutakallim and 
faylasif, or in certain cases at least sympathetic to falsafah. 


Shaykh al-Mufid was, however, much more interested in the relation between 
Shi‘ite kalam and Mu‘tazilite teachings which constitutes the subject matter of 
several of his works, the most important being Awa il al-maqalat fi’l-madhahib 
al-mukhtarat which deals with the difference between Shi‘ites and Mu‘tazilites 
conceming the doctrine of Divine Justice (al- ‘ad/). Shaykh al-Mufid was also 
anxious to delineate and accentuate the points of difference between himself 
and the strictly “traditional” Shi‘ites of the earlier generations who were even 
further removed from the Mu‘tazilite position. His famous Sharh ‘aqa@’id al- 
Sadtiq, which is a commentary upon the i‘tigadat of his teacher Ibn Babtyah 
and which has remained a popular theological text to this day, is concerned more 
than anything else with those theological interpretations that distinguish him 
from the earlier “traditional” authorities. 


While being a master jurisprudent (fagih) and theologian (mutakallim), Shaykh 


ii 


al-Mufid was also concerned with hadith and sacred history to which he devoted 
many works. Among this category of his writings, the /rshadd remains the most 
famous and perhaps the most important. Devoted to the life and sayings of the 
twelve Imams, it has been used as a definitive traditional reference by numerous 
later hagiographers and scholars of hadith as well as being a standard source by 
preachers and religious orators. The treatment of the Imams is in chronological 
order with the greatest space devoted to the first Imam. Each section moreover 
deals not only with the life of an Imam but also his sayings which in Shi‘ism 
form a part of hadith literature and serve as one of the foundations for not only 
jurisprudence and theology but all the traditional sciences. The translation of this 
work into English therefore makes available a work concerned not only with 
Shr‘ite history, but also with nearly the whole of Shr‘ite studies. 


The world of scholarship should be grateful to Doctor Howard for 
understanding the difficult task of translating this major opus into a very readable 
and at the same time scholarly English, combining exactitude in the translation 
from the original Arabic with faithfulness to the particular nature and genius of 
the English language, a feature that is unfortunately lacking in many present 
day translations. Dr. Howard has made available to the English speaking public 
a major work of Shi‘ite learning which is important for all students of early 
Islamic history, and thought as well as those concerned with the later 
development of Islamic theology and philosophy in the Shi‘ite world. The work 
is also of great value in that it provides an authentic account of how Shi‘ism has 
always seen its Imams who play such a central role in not only Shi‘ite theology 
but also in the everyday religious life of the Sh1‘ite community. 


We must also be thankful to the Muhammadi Trust which has undertaken the 
laudable task of making available the authentic sources of Shi‘ism in English 
and is making possible the appearance of Shaykh al-Mufid’s Kitab al-Irshad 
following its publication of the anthology of the sayings of the Imams. Such 
publications are necessary not only for a better understanding of a basic aspect 
of Islam by the outside world, but also for a more fruitful dialogue between 
Sunnism and Shi‘ism which is being carried out in certain quarters with the 
hope of bringing about that harmony and unity which is the earnest desire of 
all Muslims seriously concerned with their own tradition and the future of the 
Islamic world in the family of nations. It is our hope and prayer that this important 
translation receives the wide attention that it deserves and that the Muhammadi 
Trust will continue to enrich the field of Islamic studies with works of authentic 
traditional character and high scholarly quality. 


Seyyed Hossein Nasr 


iii 


INTRODUCTION 


THE LIFE AND TIMES OF AL-SHAYKH AL-MUFID 


Al-Shaykh al-Mufid’s real name is Muhammad b. Muhammad b. Nu’man 
al-Baghdadi al-Karkht. His kunya (i.e. the name by which an Arab is usually 
referred to and which refers to him as the father of someone, usually his 
eldest son) was Abt ‘Abd Allah. During his lifetime he was given the nick-name 
(lagab) of Ibn al-Mu‘allim, the son of the teacher. The teacher (mu ‘allim) par 
excellence to the Arabs was Aristotle and this nick-name may refer to al-Shaykh 
al-Mufid’s great learning as being such that he could be regarded intellectually 
as if he were the son of Aristotle. The actual nick-name by which he was later 
known, al-Shaykh al-Mufid, also refers to his great learning. Shaykh at this time 
meant “scholar” and Mufid means “one who brings benefit”. 


He was born in the year 336/ 948 or 338/950 in ‘Ukbara in Iraq.' He was brought 
to Baghdad at a very early age. It was in Baghdad that he did most of his studying 
and teaching, hence he is called al-Baghdadi. The district of Karkh in Baghdad 
was inhabitated by a largely Shi‘ite population and it is there that al-Mufid 
probably resided and did much of his teaching. Hence he is called al-Karkhi.’ 


Al-Mufid was a Shi‘ite of the Imam persuasion. The period during which he 
lived in Baghdad was a period in which Shr‘ite scholars enjoyed particular 
freedom and hence we see a blossoming of Shr‘ite scholarship in Baghdad, 
and in particular of Imami-Shi‘ite scholarship. The reason for this was that the 
dynasty which governed Baghdad, the Buwayhids, were very much inclined 
towards Shi‘ism. Originally from Daylam in Iran they had conquered Baghdad 
in 334/945. They were probably of the Zaydi Shi‘ite persuasion but the doctrines 
of the Imam1-Shi‘ites suited them politically. Thus Imami-Shi‘ites were given 
opportunities to proclaim their doctrine in a way that had rarely occurred to them 
before. 


The fact that al-Mufid became the exponent of the Imam1-Shr‘ite doctrine during 
his life and that his work al-Irshad (The Guidance) is concerned with the 
history of the twelve Imams of the Imam1-Shi‘ites and their relationship with the 
other Shr‘ite sects, in addition to the good relationship which the Imam1-Shr‘ites 
enjoyed with the Zaydi Buwayhids would seem to necessitate some description 
1 Al-Tist, Fihrist, (ed. Sprenger, reprint Mashhad, 1351 A.H.S) 314-5. 

2 Ibn al-Jawzi, al-Muntazam fi ta’rikh al-muliik wa-al-umam (Haiderabad, 1358 A.H.) VIII, II 


cited by M. McDermott, The Theology of al-Shaykh al-Mufid (Beirut, 1978), 8. 
3 On the Buwayhids, cf. C. Cahen “Biiyids”, EI-2 


Iv 


of the stage Shi‘ism had reached at this period. 


There were at this time three main groupings of Shi‘ites: Imamis, Isma‘ilis 
and Zaydis. The fundamental difference between the three groups lay in their 
conception of the Imamate. There were, also, differences in their legal doctrines. 
However, these differences were rather like the differences between the various 
schools of law outside Sht‘ism. 


The Isma‘ilis and Zaydis were much closer and both much nearer to the kind of 
law practised in Iraq.* The Imamis had a much more distinctive kind of law but 
some Zaydis held legal views very similar to the Imamis.° 


The Imamis and Isma‘tlis had similar beliefs about the nature of the Imamate. 
They believed that men could not function properly without leadership, and that 
in order for man to fulfill his religious duties and worship God it was necessary 
for him to have this leadership. At first God had provided this leadership through 
prophets who presented His revealed guidance to the world. These prophets, 
in order that the truth of God’s message be substantiated were protected from 
error. Whether a prophet was actually the ruler or not, he should, in fact, have 
been the ruler. The prophet was in a sense an Imam. The last of the prophets was 
Muhammad and after Muhammad God provided a series of Imams, who were 
protected from sin, to act as the custodians of faith for the world. The Imams 
were God’s testimony to the world which guaranteed the world’s continued 
existence. Without the Imams the world would cease to exist. The Imams were 
designated by God and this designation was made public by their predecessor. 
Thus the first Imam, ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, the son-in-law and cousin of the Prophet 
Muhammad, was designated by Muhammad and the Qur’an. The second two 
Imams, al-Hasan and al-Husayn, the sons of ‘Ali, were each designated in turn. 
After al-Husayn, they maintained that the Imamate went in the line of al-Husayn. 
‘Alt b. al-Husayn designated his son, Muhammad al-Baqir, and the latter 
designated his son, Ja‘far al-Sadiq. 


It is after the Imamate of Ja‘far al-Sadiq, the sixth Imam, that the major 
difference between Imamis and Isma‘ilis occurs. A group of Ja‘far’s followers 
maintained that he had designated his son, Isma‘tl, to succeed him. This man 
was believed to have died but these supporters of the Imamate of Isma‘1l 
divided into two groups: one maintaining that Isma‘il had not died and that he 
was the last Imam who was in hiding and would return at the end of time and a 


4 cf. LK.A. Howard, “Mut‘a Marriage Reconsidered”, Journal of Semitic Studies (Spring, 
1975), 90 
5 Ibid., 88-9 


second group that maintained that the Imamate had been passed on to Muhammad, 
Isma‘Tl’s son. This latter group became the nucleus around which the Isma‘ilis 
formed. They traced the succession through Isma‘Tl.° This group had now gained 
political power in Egypt and posed a serious threat to the central Islamic world 
dominated by the Buwayhids. 


The Imamis favoured the view that Ja‘far had designated his son Misa to be the 
seventh Imam. With the death of Miisa there was another serious split. There 
were several traditions in circulation that there would only be seven Imams 
and the seventh Imam would be the Imam who would return. A group, then, 
maintained that Misa had not died and he would return at the end of time. This 
group was known as al-Wagifa, “those who stop”, and it still had a number 
of followers at the time of al-Mufid. However, the main group of the Imamis 
maintained that there were in fact twelve Imams, son succeeding father after 
Misa: ‘Alt al-Rida, Muhammad al-Jawad, ‘Ali al-Hadi, al-Hasan al-‘ Askari and 
his son, the twelfth Imam. The traditions that the twelfth Imam was the last 
Imam who would go into occultation and return at the end of time are numerous. 
The Imamis hold that al-Hasan al-‘Askari kept the birth of his son secret 
and after al-Hasan’s death, in 260/873, the twelfth Imam remained in hiding, 
keeping in contact with his followers through four especially appointed 
emissaries. On the death of the fourth of these emissaries, in 329/940, the Imam 
sent an announcement that he was going into permanent hiding and would only 
return at the end of time. These two periods are called the Lesser Occultation 
and the Greater Occultation. The Imam, although absent from his community, 
was still present in the world and thus would ensure that his community would 
persevere their true faith. 


The Zaydis were a much more amorphous grouping than the other two groups. 
Initially their two principal doctrines appear to have been that the true Imam 
is only Imam when he declares himself to be so and comes out in open revolt 
against the authorities and secondly that this Imamate belongs to the Husaynid 
branch of the ‘Alid family. They seemed to have claimed these doctrines on the 
authority of Zayd b. ‘Alt, the brother of Muhammad al-Baqir, who led such a 
revolt after the death of his brother. 


Many of the Zaydis seem to have accepted that Abii Bakr and ‘Umar, the first 
two caliphs, were genuinely Imams and some also accepted the early part of the 
Caliphate of ‘Uthman. This attitude was formulated in the theological doctrine 
of the Imamate of the mafdiil (the less excellent). It was agreed that ‘Alt b. Abi 
Talib was al-afdal (the most excellent) and therefore the most appropriate for the 


6 cf. Part II, 427 


vi 


Imamate but it was conceded that the Imamate of the mafdiil (the less excellent) 
could occur when the most excellent (a/-afdal) did not publically assert his right 
to the Imamate by armed revolt.’ This doctrine involved a reassessment of ‘Alt’s 
nomination by the Prophet. If ‘Alt’s nomination had been public and clear to all, 
then the legitimacy of the Imamates of Abi Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthman could 
be gravely compromised. Thus, groups of the Zaydiyya maintained thal ‘Ali’s 
nomination by the Prophet had been a secret nomination (al-nass al-khafi) which 
had not been made public to all the faithful, as opposed to the doctrine of a public 
nomination (al-nass al-jafi). 


The revolutionary tendencies of the early Zaydt movement soon led many of 
them to abandon the doctrine that the Imamate only belonged to a man from 
the line of al-Husayn, who came out in armed revolt. Many Zaydi revolts in the 
second century of the Islamic era were in support of claimants who came from 
the line of al-Hasan, and some even who were much less directly connected by 
family to ‘Ali b. Abi Talib. 


Included within the Zaydi movement was a group who had previously been 
supporters of Muhammad al-Bagir. After his death, they had become supporters 
of Zayd b. ‘Alt. This group, under the leadership of Abi al-Jarid, was known as 
the Jaridiyya. They have a much closer relationship with the Imam1-Shr‘ites than 
the others. Their attitude to the Imamate was much closer to the Imami-Shr‘ites, 
as was their legal doctrine. What seems to have attracted them to the Zaydi 
movment was its emphasis on armed rebellion in favour of an ‘Alid claimant to 
the Imamate.* Nonetheless their close relationship to Imami-Shri‘ite thought can 
be seen in the belief that some of them held that there would be an Imam who 
would go into occultation and return at the end of time.’ It is also claimed that 
some members of the Jartidiyya were prepared to accept the twelve Imams of the 
Imam1-Shi‘ites, but wanted some place to be found for Zayd within the Imamate. 


However, such doctrines as the Imamate of the mafdil (less excellent) soon led 
to a quietist tendency among some elements in the Zaydi movement. They found 
that this doctrine allowed them to have a close working relationship with the 
‘Abbasid caliphate. 


The Buwayhids, as noted earlier, were probably of Zaydi inclinations, at 


7 cf. ‘Abd al-Jabbar al-Asadabadi, al-Mughni (Cairo, 1965), XX, (ii) 184 

8 W. Madelung, Der Imam al-Qasim ibn Ibrahim (Berlin, 1965), 47 

9 cf. J. Hussain, “The Historical Background to the Occultation of the Twelfth Imam” 
(unpublished Ph.D. Thesis. University of Edinburgh. 1979), 36-38, citing traditions from 
“Abbad b. al-Ya‘qib al-‘Asfari, ‘As/] Abu Sa ‘id al-‘Asfari, Usil al-Arba‘mi’a, MS. Teheran 
University no. 262. 


vil 


least at the time of their conquest of Baghdad. At one time early on they even 
considered deposing the ‘Abbasid Caliph and setting up an ‘Alid Imam. 
However, this would have led to an extremely difficult situation with regard to 
the majority of their subjects who were non-Shi‘ite and accepted the ‘Abbasid 
caliphate. The doctrine of the Imamate of the mafdul allowed them to work with 
the less excellent ‘Abbasids. By encouraging Imami-Shi‘ism, whose Imam was 
in occultation and would not return until the end of time, they could encourage 
Shi‘ite aspirations without endangering their own political sovereignty. By the 
appointment of an ‘Alid Imam, they would have relegated themselves to much 
more subservient political status than they had by maintaining an ‘Abbasid 
Caliph, whom they regarded, at best, as mafdil (less excellent.) 


The Buwayhids provided an atmosphere in Iraq and Iran, which enabled groups 
previously under some pressure from the authorities to flourish. This was 
particularly true for the various strands of Shi‘ism, with the exception of the 
Isma‘tlis with their dangerous threat to Iraq from their power base in Egypt. 
Another group which seems to have done well during this period was the 
Mu‘tazila, a theological school which laid great emphasis on the use of reason. 
They had been moving steadily towards a view of ‘Alt as the most excellent 
(al-afdal) of the Companions of the Prophet and therefore a more favourable 
attitude towards Shi‘ism. 


It was in this atmosphere that al-Mufid was born, was educated and lived his 
life. He was educated in Baghdad by leading Imami-Shi‘ite scholars and by 
leading members of the Mu‘tazila.'° Earlier Imami scholarship had not been 
able to present such a public voice. While there had been several Imami-Shr‘ite 
theologians before al-Mufid who had used reason in theological speculation, 
al-Mufid became the leader of a theological trend within Imam1-Shr‘ism that 
firmly established reason in Imami-Shi‘ite theological speculation." 


In fact, the vast bulk of earlier Imami-Shi‘ite scholarship had concerned the 
collection of traditions from the Imams. The first collections of traditions, 
collected either directly from the Imams or at second-hand, were known as usiil 
or sources. There were said to be four hundred such usiil.!* The next stage was 
to bring these collections into more systematic form according to subject matter. 
The most important of these systematic collections of traditions from the Imams 
was al-Kafi. This vast collection of traditions was compiled by Muhammad b. 
Ya‘qitb al-Kulayni, who died in 329/940. Al-Mufid studied this work under 


10 M. McDermott, op. cit. (9-13). 


11 Ibid., 2-4. 
12 Agha Buzurg al-Teherant, al-Dhari‘a ila tasanif al-Shi‘a (Najaf, 1963-8,) IL, 125-9 


Vill 


another great traditionist, Ibn Qulawayh, (died 368/978-79).'> Al-Mufid also 
studied traditions under the second great collector of traditions, Ibn Babawayh, 
also known as al-Shaykh al-Sadiiq, who died in 381/991-92.'* 


With the occultation of the twelfth Imam, leadership of the Imami-Shr‘ite 
community rested very much in the hands of the traditionists, who propagated 
the teaching of the Imams. Perhaps their greatest exponent during this period 
was Ibn Babawayh. Al-Mufid, with his great knowledge of traditions and his 
training in theoretical speculation, was able to cross the division between the 
two elements, the speculative theologians and the traditionists, and provide 
Imam1-Shi‘ism with a synthesis which combined speculative theology with an 
intelligent use of traditions. 


Such was the breadth of his learning that he became recognised as the leading 
scholar of the Imami-Shi‘ites. 


Although the period was a much more favourable time for Imami-Shr‘ite 
scholars, it was not without friction between the Shr‘ites and their opponents. 
Two Shr‘ite festivals had been established. The commemoration of Ghadir 
Khumm on 18" of the month of Dhi al-Hijja, and ‘Ashtra’ on the 10" of the 
month of Muharram. These festivals were instituted by the Buwayhid Mu‘izz 
al-Dawla in 351/962. The Ghadir Khumm festival commemorated the occasion 
on which the Prophet, when returning from the farewell Pligrimage, declared 
“Alt, to be the mawla (master) of the people and commended him to them. This 
was taken by Shri‘ites to be an explicit designation of ‘Ali for the Imamate. 
‘Ashtira’ commemorated the martyrdom of al-Husayn in Iraq. In retaliation 
of these two festivals, the Sunnis instituted two rival festivals in 389/999 on 
the 26" of Dhi al-Hijja and 18" of Muharram, on which they celebrated 
respectively Abii Bakr’s stay in the cave with the Prophet during his emigration 
from Medina to Mecca, and the death of Mus‘ab b. al-Zubayr, who had defeated 
the rebel al-Mukhtar, who had risen in vengeance for the death of al-Husayn. 
These festivals became a frequent source of violence between Sht‘ite and Sunni 
partisans. There were several occasions on which serious violence occurred 
between the rival factions. On these occasions al-Mufid was banished from 
the city of Baghdad because of disturbances but it does not appear that al- 
Mufid was in any way responsible for instigating these disturbances. Rather it 
appears that the Buwayhids, in order to preserve order and give an appearance 
of even-handed justice, felt it necessary to find a scape-goat among the Shr‘ites. 
Al-Mufid was sufficiently important for them to pacify Sunni sentiments. 
13 Al-Tast, Fihrist, 328. 

14 AL-Tast, Fihrist, 305. 


Ix 


However, these banishments were short-lived. 


Al-Mufid was a great Imami-Shi‘ite scholar in an era of great Imami-Shr‘ite 
scholars. His older contemporaries and teachers, Ibn Qulawayh and Ibn 
Babawayh have already been mentioned. He was, however, himself the 
teacher of two very great Imami-Shi‘ite scholars, the brothers, al-Sharif 
al-Radi, (d.406/1015) and al-Sharif al-Murtada (d.436/1044). Al-Radi, who 
in fact died before al-Mufid, was a great writer and poet and the compiler of 
Nahj al-Balagha, a collection of the speeches of ‘Alt b. Abt Talib.'° Al-Murtada 
followed and developed al-Mufid’s work in speculative theology and must be 
regarded as one of the greatest Imam1-Shi‘ite theologians.'’ Another student of 
al-Mufid who belongs to the ranks of the great Imami-Shi‘ite scholars was 
the traditionist, jurist and theologian and later leader of the Imami-Shr‘ite 
scholars, al-Shaykh al-Tisi.'* 


Al-Mufid’s own literary output was enormous. He is credited with over two 
hundred works: many of these were short treatises of a polemical nature but he 
also wrote much lengthier works on the whole range of religious topics. 


Al-Mufid died in the year 413/1022. A vast crowd attended his funeral and the 
funeral prayer for him was led by his former pupil al-Sharif al-Murtada. He 
was at first buried in his own house but later moved to Kazimayn and buried 
alongside his former teacher, Ibn Qulawayh.'” 


KiTaB AL-IRSHaD 


Kitab al-Irshad was written by al-Mufid before he was forty, as it is mentioned 
by Ibn al-Nadim.”’ It is written in answer to a request for guidance about the lives 
of the Imams “‘so that you may distinguish obscure errors and proved facts and 
you may rely on the truth in it with the sureness of one who has justice and true 
beliefs of religion.” 


The book is really in two halves. The first deals with the first Imam, ‘Alt b. Abt? 
Talib and the second half deals with the other eleven Imams. The first half of 
the book is mainly concerned with the inter-Islamic polemic. Al-Mufid attempts 


15 cf. M. McDermott, op. cit., 16-21. 
16 Ibn Dawud, al-Rijal (Tehran. 1342 A.H.S.) 307. 
17 Al-Tisi, Fihrist, 218-220. 
18 Al-Tisi, Fihrist, 285-288. 
19 Al-Tisi, Fihrist, 316. 
20 Bayard Dodge (ed. And trans.), The Fihrist of ibn Nadim (New York, 1970), I, 491. 
Ibn Nadim died in 380/990. Therefore, Kitab al-Irshad must have been wntten before that date. 


x 


to show that ‘Ali was the most excellent of the followers of the Prophet and 
was designated by the Prophet to be his successor. The main concentration of it, 
therefore, concerns ‘Alt’s great exploits during the Prophet’s life, the Prophet’s 
trust in and reliance upon ‘Ali and his designation of ‘Ali. In this part al-Mufid 
uses several accounts from historians of the life of the Prophet, in particular 
versions of the work of Ibn Ishaq (d.151/768) and al-Waqidt (d. 208/823), which 
are not always acknowledged. After giving the accounts, al-Mufid attempts to 
draw the appropriate conclusions from them. Thus, most of these accounts are 
followed by an analysis which attempts to demonstrate that ‘Alt must be the 
most excellent and therefore was the logical Imam after the Prophet. Many of 
these accounts concern ‘Ali’s bravery and heroism during the life of the Prophet 
when Islam was beset by so many dangers. 


Another area, in addition to the military, where the leadership of an Imam was 
necessary, was in giving judgements in legal disputes. Al-Mufid produces a 
collection of ‘Alt’s legal decisions which cover the time of the Prophet and the 
first three Caliphs. In some of these accounts there are Biblical reminiscences 
but al-Mufid himself stresses the role of the legal knowledge of David. ‘AI, he 
claims, has a similar knowledge. 


He does not give a detailed account of the period in which ‘Alt ruled the Islamic 
Community. Rather at this point he relies on the speeches of ‘Ali. He includes 
a fairly wide selection of the speeches of ‘Ali and thus in Kitab al-Irshad we 
have an earlier collection of the speeches of ‘Ali than that of al-Mufid’s pupil, 
al-Radi’s Nahj al-Balagha. There are many speeches similar to those included by 
al-Radi and some that al-Radrt has not used. Al-Mufid’s collection of speeches is 
more systematic than al-Radi’s. He begins with speeches of a more theological 
nature and then lets ‘Ali’s words comment on the events of his caliphate as they 
happen, in more or less chronological order. Al-Mufid goes on to deal with the 
miracles attributed to ‘Ali. During the course of his presentation of the miracles, 
he takes great pains to argue against the rationalist tendency present in society, 
which denied miracles. 


In the second half of the book al-Mufid presents the other eleven Imams. These 
accounts are not full lives of the Imams but rather collections of traditions 
concemed with critical aspects of their Imamates. As such, this half of the book 
is much more concermed with the inter-Shi‘ite polemic of al-Mufid’s own time. 
He is anxious to show his readers the Imami-Shi‘ite position on matters which 
were subjects of dispute to Shi‘ites of his own time. 


The Imamates of al-Hasan and his brother al-Husayn were generally accepted 


Xl 


by the Shi‘ites of his time so that there was no real argument within Shi‘ism 
concerning them. With regard to al-Hasan, al-Mufid is mainly concerned to 
show the circumstances surrounding his abdication, which made that abdication 
inevitable, and that al-Hasan’s death was murder at the instigation of 
Mu‘awiya. In the case of al-Husayn his main interest is to give an account of the 
martyrdom. In choosing to use the account of Ibn al-Kalbi and not that of his 
teacher Ibn Babawayh, al-Mufid seems to be opposing tendencies within and 
outside the Imami-Shi‘ite community to exaggerate the historical circumstances 
of that martyrdom. In choosing the version of al-Kalbi he has opted for the one 
with the best historical pedigree, being derived, as it is in the main, from the 
tradition of Aba Mikhnaf. 


The Imamate ‘Ali b. al-Husayn was a period in which there was a contestant 
for that Imamate. Al-Mufid omits the story, which is common in Imami-Shi‘ism, 
about the dispute between Muhammad b. al-Hanafiyya and ‘Ali b. al-Husayn 
over the Imamate and how that dispute was settled by the Black Stone of 
the Ka‘ba. Al-Mufid dealt with it elsewhere in his works. He also refutes the 
doctrines of the Kaysaniyya, the group which upheld the Imamate of 
Muhammad b. al-Hanafiyya, in another of his works. The reason for the absence 
of any detailed discussion of the Kaysaniyya and the Imamate of Muhammad b. 
al-Hanafiyya from this work would appear that, although these matters were of 
great significance in early Shi‘ism, they no longer had any relevance to Shi‘ism 
in the time of al-Mufid. The main thrust of al-Mufid’s arguments in favour of 
‘Alt b. al-Husayn is the Imami-Shi‘ite doctrine that there must always be an 
Imam and since, apart from Muhammad b. al-Hanafiyya, there are no other 
claims made on behalf of any one else, it belongs to ‘Ali b. al-Husayn. He 
maintained that this was also confirmed by the designation on his Imamate by his 
grandfather, and his position as the only surviving son of al-Husayn. For the rest 
al-Mufid is concerned to demonstrate his piety and merit. 


In his account of the Imamate of Muhammad al-Bagir, al-Mufid emphasises the 
latter’s great contribution to traditional knowledge. He particularly refers to the 
tradition reported by Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah al-Ansari that he (Jabir) would live 
until he met a descendant of the Prophet who would split knowledge open. Al- 
Mufid also draws attention to certain documents which Muhammad al-Baqir 
inherited from the Prophet and Fatima. While the possession of such documents 
might well be regarded as one of the insignia of office, certainly of inherited 
wisdom, it is also maintained that these documents contained the actual names of 
the twelve Imams. In the course of this account al-Mufid refers to the rebellion 
led by Muhammad al-Baqir’s brother Zayd b. ‘Ali. He is at pains to point out 
that Zayd’s revolution was carried out to secure the Imamate for Muhammad’s 


Xil 


appointed successor, his son Ja‘far, and that the revolution was a spontaneous 
reaction by Zayd to humiliation which he received from the authorities. Al- 
Mufid’s version clearly belongs to the polemic between the Zaydis and the 
Imamt1-Shr‘ite of his own time. 


During the Imamate of Ja‘far al-Sadiq, the Hasanid line began to emerge as 
contestants for the Imamate. Al-Mufid recounts a report from Abt al-Faraj al- 
Isfahant’s Maqatil al-Talibiyvin in which, at a meeting of the various branches of 
the Hashimites, the claims of Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah to the title of the Mahdi 
were put forward. This claim Ja‘far rejected with the assertion that the time was 
not appropriate for the Imamate. The doctrine of the Mahdi, the rightly guided 
Imam who would bring justice to the Shi‘a and the world, was first attributed 
to Muhammad b. al-Hanafiyya. The Kaysaniyya had claimed that he had not 
died but had gone into concealment and would bring justice to the world. The 
poet al-Sayyid al-Himyart had been a supporter of this belief. Al-Mufid quotes 
a poem of his to show that he was converted to Ja‘far’s interpretation of this 
doctrine, namely that the Mahdi belonged to the line of Imams from ‘Ali through 
al-Husayn and his descendants. One of their number would eventually go into 
concealment and return as the Mahdi to bring justice to the world. 


This belief served to emphasise the quiescent policy of the Imam1-Shr‘ites. 
Ja‘far’s reign was a particularly turbulent time for Shi‘ite rebellions against the 
‘Umayyad authorities. The enthusiasm of some Shr‘ite elements and popular 
reaction against the ‘Umayyads was exhibited during Ja‘far’s own lifetime, in the 
rebellions of Zayd b. ‘Ali and ‘Abd Allah b. Mu‘awiya. In addition the ‘Abbasid 
branch of the Hashimites, using claims of succession through Muhammad b. 
al-Hanafiyya, brought about the overthrow of the ‘Umayyads. Even some 
of Ja‘far’s own sons, who were not to succeed him, seem to have dabbled in 
revolutionary Shi‘ism. Thus there is some evidence that Isma‘il, Ja‘far’s eldest 
son, was engaged in revolutionary activities.*! Al-Mufid, himself, gives an 
account of some of the revolutionary activities undertaken by his son, Muhammad. 
There are also reports of his second son, ‘Abd Allah, who was not nominated by 
Ja‘far as his successor, taking part in Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah’s rebellion.” 


Amid such turbulent conditions, Ja‘far’s own nomination to the Imamate by 
his father, Muhammad al-Baqir, takes on a new significance. Al-Mufid pays 
particular attention to Ja‘far’s nomination by his father in a way that he had 
not done for the earlier Imams. For the latter, he had been content with general 


21 cf. B. Lewis. The Origins of Isma ‘lism (Cambridge, 1940), 39. 


22 Magatil al-Talibiyyin, (Cairo. 1949) 278. There is also a report that Miisa took part with ‘Abd 
Allah (227) but this seems unlikely. 


xiii 


statements of their nomination. In the case of Ja‘far and all the later Imams, 
he gives much more evidence from traditions by eye-witnesses of their 
nomination. Al-Mufid also shows Ja‘far asserting that the weapons of the 
Prophet, the symbols of authority, which would be used in the ultimate 
revolution, were in the safe-keeping of true Imams, that is, himself and his 
successors. Ja‘far seems to have been compelled to make this assertion in 
response to claims that Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah had the Prophet’s sword. 


Al-Mufid also reports Ja‘far as maintaining that he had documents dictated by 
the Prophet to ‘Alt. Again possession of these documents served to strengthen 
his claims to the Imamate. The nature of such documents served to underline the 
doctrine of the Imam as teacher, interpreter and ultimate guide in religion. 


There were current in Shi‘ite circles traditions that there would be only seven 
Imams. These traditions were later to lead to serious divisions within the Shr‘ite 
movement. Some of Ja‘far’s supporters maintained that he nominated his eldest 
son Isma‘il and that Isma‘tl was the seventh and last Imam. Al-Mufid takes 
great trouble to demonstrate that Ja‘far did not nominate Isma‘il and that Isma‘Tl 
died during Ja‘far’s own lifetime. Despite this, the Isma‘Ili branch of Shi‘ism 
developed, claiming that the Imamate belonged to the successors of Isma‘il. 


The Imamate of Ja‘far’s successor Misa was a critical period for Imam1-Shr‘ism. 
Such was the influence of the rumours about the seventh Imam being the Imam 
who would be the Mahdi that the ‘Abbasid authorities kept a very close watch 
to see who would be designated as Ja‘far’s successor. As a result and in order 
to protect his successor, Ja‘far appears, at least publicly, not to have made it 
clear who his successor would be. Although al-Mufid quotes a considerable 
number of traditions about Miisa’s designation by Ja‘far, this designation seems 
to have been made secretly and the majority of the Shi‘a seem to have been 
uncertain who Ja‘far’s successor was. Al-Mufid himself indicates that most of 
them, at first, followed Ja‘far’s second son ‘Abd Allah. However, they found his 
knowledge inadequate and eventually came to uphold the Imamate of Musa. 


Once the Imamate of Misa was clearly established among the majority of the 
Imami-Shi‘ites, the authorities paid increasing attention to his activities and 
eventually imprisoned him. The death of Misa is important to establish within 
the context of the inter-Shr‘ite polemic, for the tradition of the seventh Imam 
being the “awaited” Imam was fairly widespread. Al-Mufid uses the account 
reported by Abu al-Faraj al-Isfahani for this purpose. The account reveals that 
Miusa’s body was publicly displayed so that people should have no doubt about 
his death. In the same context, Miisa’s designation of his son ‘Ali al-Rida is of 


XiV 


importance. 


The Imamate of ‘Ali al-Rida was a time of great Shi‘ite activity against the 
‘Abbasid caliph al-Ma’miin. During this time al-Mufid shows ‘Ali al-Rida 
as the reluctant instrument of al-Ma’min’s attempt to reconcile the Shi‘ite 
community. Al-Ma’miin, professing great respect for the family of ‘Ali b. Abi 
Talib, makes ‘Alt al-Rida his heir apparent. Then, later, he has ‘Ali al-Rida 
poisoned. The ordering of the court to wear green, another aspect of al-Ma’mtin’s 
policy, has absolutely nothing to do with Shi‘ism. ‘Ali al-Rida, when asked to 
lead the prayer by al-Ma’mtn, wears white, the colour traditionally associated 
with the family of the Prophet. 


The succession of ‘Ali al-Rida was another moment of critical importance to 
Imamt1-Shr‘ism. ‘Ali al-Rida left behind him only one son, Muhammad al-Jawad, 
who was seven years old at the time of his death. As a result of this, several 
of his former supporters, now reverted to the idea that Misa was the awaited 
Imam who was in occultation and would return. To combat this, al-Mufid quotes 
traditions of his nomination by his father. These traditions refer to Jesus 
having begun his mission while still a child. Al-Mufid demonstrates that he was 
competent to be Imam although still a child by reporting his confrontation with 
one of the leading jurists of the time, Yahya b. Aktham. In their discussion, 
Muhammad al-Jawad shows himself to be not only conversant with 
jurisprudence but a much greater jurist then Yahya b. Aktham. When reporting the 
death of Muhammad al-Jawad, al-Mufid refuses to accept reports of his murder. 
He, thus, shows himself to be in disagreement with his teacher, lbn Babawayh, 
who maintains that all the Imams were murdered. In fact al-Mufid only seems to 
accept the murders of ‘Ali, al-Hasan, al-Husayn, Misa and ‘Ali al-Rida. 


With the death of Muhammad al-Jawad, the Imamate passes to his son, ‘Alt al- 
Hadi. From the time of ‘Alt al-Rida onwards, the Imams had been kept under 
very close observation by the ‘Abbasids. This is particularly true of Imams ‘Ali 
al-Hadi and al-Hasan al-‘Askari, his son. The traditions reported by al-Mufid 
give us some insight into the secret organisation built up by the Imami-Shi‘ites 
to escape ‘Abbasid surveillance. The succession of al-Hasan al-‘Askari also 
presented the Imam1-Shr‘ites community with some problems. For ‘Ali al-Hadt 
had had another son, Muhammad, whom observers thought that he intended to 
appoint as his successor. However Muhammad died before ‘Ali al-Hadi. The 
situation is actually compared to that which existed when it was thought that 
Ja‘far al-Sadiq would appoint Isma‘Tl as his successor. 


The existence of the twelfth Imam is of crucial importance to Imami-Shi‘ism. 


XV 


Al-Mufid maintains that he was born in 255/869. His birth was kept secret from 
the authorities and the child was sent to the Hijaz for safe-keeping. Al-Mufid 
quotes traditions from men who claimed to have seen him there. The claims 
of Ja‘far, the brother of al-Hasan al-‘Askari, to be the Imam are rejected. It is 
suggested that Ja‘far was himself aware of the existence of the son of al-Hasan 
al-‘ Askari. Al-Mufid also quotes some of the traditions in favour of there being 
twelve Imams. The ‘Abbasid authorities were also aware of these traditions and 
took great care to try to detect the birth of the twelfth Imam. Al-Mufid’s main 
concern, then, is to show the contact that the Imam maintained with the Imami- 
Shr‘ite organisation. He finishes his account of this Imamate by enumerating the 
signs which will precede the return of the twelfth Imam. 


He presents the background to these matters by selective use of historical 
material. As already mentioned, al-Mufid used versions of the historians, Ibn 
Ishaq and al-Waqidi, for the life of ‘Ali.% He also relies on material from Imami- 
Shr‘ite traditional sources. He had a copy of Abii al-Faraj al-Isfahant’s Magatil 
al-Talibiyyin, written in the latter’s own hand. He seems to have material from 
this in his account of ‘Ali’s death and al-Hasan’s accession and abdication as 
well as of his death. 


In these two cases, he quotes one of Abi al-Faraj’s sources, Abi Mikhnaf, rather 
than the book itself, but a comparison of the two texts seems to indicate that he 
took it directly from Abit al-Faraj. Other places where he seems to have used 
Abi al-Faraj, are at Ja‘far al-Sadiq’s meeting with the Hashimites at al-Abwa’ 
near Medina (here he acknowledges the source), and also for the death of Musa 
al-Kazim as well as for some of the account about ‘Ali al-Rida. 


His historical account of the martyrdom of al-Husayn, he attributes in the main to 
Tbn al-Kalbi and al-Mada‘in1. However, his principal source seems to have been 
al-Tabari’s version of al-Kalb1,”* which he has given in a somewhat abbreviated 
form. 


The other major source used by al-Mufid is al-Kulayni’s al-Kafi. He had 
studied this under Ibn Qulawayh and frequently he gives the full isnad (chain 
of authorities) from Ibn Qilawayh and gives al-Kulayni’s isnad. However, 


23 In fact on two occasions al-Mufid cites Ibn Hisham’s Recension of Ibn Ishaq’s Stra. On both 
occasions the citation is not the same as the version we have of Ibn Hisham. In the main it 
seems likely that he used the version presented by al-Tabari, though with additional material 
from Shr‘ite sources. 

24 However, he does include some details not described in al-Tabari’s version. He also 

Incorporates the arrival of ‘Ubayd Allah into the account, which al-Tabart gives as an 
alternative to Ibn al-Kalbi on the authority of ‘Umar b. Shabba. 


Xv1 


sometimes he cuts his own reference and the isndd to the last two authorities 
and sometimes he omits the isndd altogether. 


Another work which al-Mufid mentions and commends to his readers is 
Kitab al-Ghayba of al-Nu’mant. This work is particularly concerned with the 
existence, occultation and signs for the return of the twelfth Imam and al-Mufid 
probably made particular use of it in his chapter about that Imam. 


Al-Mufid also seems to have used a work by Yahya b. al-Hasan al-‘Alawi a 
follower of ‘Ali al-Rida.*> This work he received from al-Sharif Abi Muhammad 
al-Hasan b. Muhammad. Although the latter was regarded as generally weak, 
he seems to have had an interest in genealogy”® and al-Mufid uses him for 
reports on this subject from the work of Yahya b. al-Hasan. Yahya b. al-Hasan is 
also used extensively by Abi al-Faraj al-Isfahani in Maqatil al-Talibiyyin. Al- 
Mufid reports traditions from several other teachers, about whom we know very 
little. Other authorities whom we know something of are Ibn al-Ji‘ab1, who was 
an expert in tradition, and the theologian Tahir, the pupil of the Imam1-Shi‘ite 
theologian Abt al-Jaysh, as well as Abi al-Jaysh himself. 


THE TRANSLATION 


The text used for this translation is the reprint (Tehran 1377 A.H.) of the 
lithographed version edited by Kazim al-Misawi al-Miyamiwi. 


In the translation, texts of letters and verses have been indented. Square brackets, 
[], have been used to separate the isndd, i.e. the chain of authorities, from the 
actual report. Ordinary brackets, (), have been used to identify persons who 
might otherwise be obscure, to give the meaning of words or phrases which 
may be a little unclear and sometimes to give the Arabic word in order to make 
clear what the translation refers to. Qur’anic quotations have been referred to by 
giving the number of the siira in Roman numerals and the number of the verse 
in ordinary numerals. 


The chapter divisions have been given titles and some of the sections within the 
chapters have been joined together, or separated according to the logic of their 
contents. Sometimes a section has been given a title that is not given by al-Mufid. 


25 Al-Tusi, Fihrist, 360. Where It is mentioned that he has a work on the genealogy of the family 
of Abi Talib. The link in the chain of authorities for this book back to Al-Tist is his grandson, 
Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad whose name is given as Abi Muhammad b. Akht 
Tahir (son of the brother of Tahir). 

26 Ibn Dawud, al-Rijal 443. 


XVil 


Mawila, which is a rather difficult word to translate, depending very much on the 
context, has been usually translated “retainer”. This is a rather loose translation, 
but gives the general idea of the status of the people generally referred to by 
this designation in the text. Where the meaning is entirely different, it has been 
translated differently, but the word is given in brackets. 


The system of transliteration of Arabic used is that in general use in Britain. 
I have chosen to ignore the hamzat al-was/ and have transliterated words as 
written and not as pronounced. 


Following the translation is a biographical index which is designed to help 
identify the people referred to in the text. 


I would like to thank the Muhammadi Trust for financing the publication of this 
work. In this connection, I would particularly like to thank Mr. Abbas Gokal and 
Wing-Commander Husain Qasim, the secretary of the Muhammadi Trust. The 
latter has been a constant source of encouragement and help and I would like 
to thank him for his kindness and understanding. I am also extremely grateful 
to colleagues and friends, Dr. Jasim Hussain and Dr. ‘Abd al-Rahtm ‘Alt, who 
helped me check the translation. In this connection I would also like to thank Dr. 
Dona Straley, whose help has been of great value. Finally I must acknowledge 
the debt I owe to my wife, Louise, without whom I do not think this work would 
ever have been finished. 


I. K. A. Howard 
University of Edinburgh. 


XVIll 


AUTHOR’S PREFACE 
In the name of ALLAH, the Merciful the Compassionate 


Praise be to Allah for His inspiration of knowledge of Himself and of guidance 
towards Himself through obedience to Him. Blessings and salvation be upon 
the best of His creatures, Muhammad, Lord of the Prophets and His sincere 
friend, and upon the rightly-guided Imams from his progeny. I am recording - 
Allah grant me help and success - what you have asked for, of the names of the 
Imams of guidance and the dates of their lives; as well as mentioning the places 
of their tombs and the names of their children and some of their stories which 
will be useful for knowledge of their circumstances, so that you may become as 
thoroughly acquainted (with them) as one who knows them and so that the 
difference between (various) claims and beliefs about them is clear. Thus 
through considering (this account) you may distinguish between obscure errors 
and proved facts and you may rely on the truth in it with the sureness of one who 
has justice and the true beliefs of religion. I am answering what you have asked 
for, while taking care to be concise and brief in my answer as you have urged 
and requested that to be. I put my trust in Allah and seek His guidance along the 
path of righteousness. 


X1X 


PART I 


THE LIFE OF 
THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 
‘ALI B. ABI TALIB

[[p 20]]
CHAPTER I 


BACKGROUND TO THE LIFE 
OF THE 
COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


INTRODUCTION 


(This part gives) an account of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him, the first of the Imams of the believers, of the rulers (wu/at) of the Muslims 
and of Allah’s (appointed) successors in religion after the Apostle of Allah, the 
truthful one and the trusted one, Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah, the seal of the 
Prophets, blessings be on Him and His Pure Family. (He was) the brother of the 
Apostle of Allah and his paternal cousin, and his helper (wazir) in his affair, his 
son-in-law (being married) to his daughter, Fatima the chaste, mistress of the 
women of the universe. (The full name of) the Commander of the Faithful is ‘Alt 
b. Abt Talib b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib b. Hashim b. ‘Abd Manaf. (He was) the Lord of 
the testamentary trustees of authority (wasiyyin), the best of blessing and peace 
be on him. His kunya was Abi al-Hasan. 


He was born in the Sacred House (i.e. the Ka‘ba) in Mecca on Friday, the 
thirteenth day of the month of Rajab, thirty years after the Year of the Elephant 
(c.570). Nobody before or after him has ever been born in the House of Allah, the 
Most High. (It was a mark) of him being honoured by Allah, the Most High, may 
His name be exalted, and of his position being dignified in its greatness. 


His mother was Fatima, daughter of Asad b. Hashim b. ‘Abd Manaf, may Allah 
be pleased with her. She was like a mother to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, and he (the Apostle) was brought up under her care. 


He was grateful for her kindness and she was among the first to believe in him 
and she emigrated with him in the group of the emigrants. When she died, 
the Prophet shrouded her with his own shirt in order to protect her from the 
insects of the earth, and he laid her to rest in her grave in order that, through that, 
she might be protected from (the crushing pressure of) the narrow space within 
the grave. He dictated to her her last words (which were) the statement of the 
authority (wilaya) of her son, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
so that at the examination after burial, she would be able to reply with those 
words. He singled her out with this great favour because of her position with 
Allah, may He be magnified and exalted, and with him, peace be on him. The 


2 


report of that is well known. 


The Commander of the Faithful, ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, and 
his brothers were among the leading members of the second generation of 
descendants of Hashim. In this way he gained two marks of nobility, through 
his growing up under the care and education of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. He was the first of the family of the House and of the 
Companions to believe in Allah and His Apostle. He was the first male whom 
the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, summoned to Islam and 
who answered. He never ceased to support the religion and to strive against the 
polytheists. He constantly defended the faith and fought against those who 
supported deviation (from the truth) and despotism. He spread the teachings of 
the sunna (the practice of the Prophet) and the Qur’an, judged with justice and 
enjoined (people) to do good. 


He was with the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
twenty-three years after the (coming) of the (prophetic) mission. Of these, 
thirteen years were in Mecca before the emigration when he shared with him all 
the persecutions and bore most of his hardships. Then there were ten years in 
Medina after the emigration when he defended him against the polytheists and 
strove with him against the unbelievers. He protected him with his own life from 
the enemies of religion until the time Allah, the Exalted, took (the Prophet) to 
His heaven, raised him to the highest place in heaven and bestowed His blessings 
and peace on Him and His Family. On that day the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, was thirty-three years of age. 


On the day of the death of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Pure 
Family, the community differed over his Imamate. His Shi‘a who were all the 
Banu Hashim, Salman, ‘Ammar, Abu Dharr, al-Miqdad, Khuzayma b. Thabit 
- the man who is known as the possessor of two testimonies - Abii Ayyiib 
al-Ansart, Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah al- Ansari, Abi Sa‘td al-Khudri and people like 
them among the important emigrants and Ansar, (all these) maintained that he 
was the successor (khalifa) after the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, and the Imam. (They did this) because of his outstanding merit (fad/) 
above all mankind, through the fact that there were gathered in him the qualities 
of outstanding merit, judgement and perfection, such as him being the first of the 
community to enter the faith, his superiority over them in knowledge of the laws, 
his precedence over them in fighting (jihad) and the distinction which set him 
apart from them in the extent of his piety, asceticism and righteousness. 


Furthermore he had been specially singled out by the Prophet from among (all) 


3 


his relations because of (the qualities) which no other relation, apart from him, 
shared with the Prophet and because of the nomination (nass) of his authority 
(wilaya) by Allah, may Allah be magnified and exalted, in the Qur’an where He, 
may His name be exalted, says: Your authority (wali) is Allah and His Apostle 
and those believers who perform the prayer and pay alms (zakat) while they are 
bowing (in prayer). (V 55) It is known that no one except him paid alms while 
bowing (in prayer). 


It has been established in language that wa/t means “the most appropriate 
for authority” (aw/a), without there being any opposition (to this definition). 
If the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was, by the stipulation of 
the Qur’an, more appropriate for authority among the people than themselves 
because of his being their wa/7 according to the textual nomination (nass) in the 
Clear Explanation (i.e. the Qur’an, tibydan), it was obviously necessary for all 
of them to obey him, just as obedience to Allah, the Most High, and obedience 
to His Apostle, peace be on Him and His Family, was required because of the 
information about their authority (wi/dya) over creatures which is given in this 
verse with clear proof. 


(Another reason for their support for the Commander of the Faithful was) 
because of what the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said on the 
day (of the assembly) at his house. He had especially gathered the Bant ‘Abd 
al-Muttalib there in order to make the (following) solemn pledge: “Whoever 
helps me in this matter will be my brother, my testamentary trustee (was7), my 
helper (wazir), my heir and my successor after me.” Then the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, stood up before him among all the gathering of them, 
and on that day he was the youngest of them, and he said: “O Apostle of Allah, 
I will help you.” 


Then the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “Sit down, you are 
my brother, my trustee, my helper, my inheritor and successor after me.” 


This is a clear statement about the succession (after the Prophet). 

In addition, there is also what (the Prophet), peace be on Him and His Family, 
said on the day of Ghadir Khumm. The community had gathered to listen to the 
sermon (in which he asked): “Am I not more appropriate for authority (aw/d) 


over you than yourselves?” 


“Yes,” they answered. 


Then he spoke to them in an ordered manner without any interruption in his 
speech: “Whomsoever I am the authority over (mawia), ‘Ali is also the authority 
over.” 


Thus he (the Prophet) required for him (‘Alt), through laying down obedience to 
him and his authority (over them), the same authority as he had over them, and 
which he made them acknowledge and which they did not deny. This is clear 
(evidence) of the nomination (nass) of him for the Imamate and for succession 
to his position. 


Furthermore there is (the Prophet’s), peace be on Him and His Family, state- 
ment to him at the time of setting out to Tabiik: “You are in the same position 
with respect to me as Aaron (Hariin) was to Moses (Misa) except that there is 
no prophet after me.” Thus he required him (to have) the office of helping (i.e. 
administering) and to be characterised by love and outstanding merit over 
everyone. (He also required) his deputising for him both during his life and 
after his death. The Qur’an gives evidence for all that coming to Aaron (Hartin) 
from Moses (Misa), peace be on them, when Allah, may He be magnified and 
exalted, said in giving a report of what Moses, peace be on him, said: “Make 
Aaron, my brother, a helper for me from my family. Give me support through 
him and make him participate in my affair so that we may glorify You much 
and we may remember You frequently in that You have been a watcher over 
us.” (XX 29-35). Allah, the Most Exalted said: “Your request is granted, 
Moses.” (XX 36). This (verse) confirmed that Aaron had a share with Moses in 
prophecy, and in helping in delivering the message and his support was 
strengthened through him by his aid. (Moses) also told him of deputising for 
him (when he said): “....Deputise for me among my people. Act for (their) 
benefit and do not follow the path of the corrupters.” (VII 142) This confirms his 
succession by the precise statement of revelation. Therefore when the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, gave all the ranks which Aaron 
had from Moses to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, in the same 
extent, except for prophecy, (all such things) were required of him as helping the 
Apostle, giving him support, outstanding merit and love, because these qualities 
were definitelyrequired by that. Then by the clear statement there is his deputising 
for him during his life and “after the prophethood” which (gives evidence of his 
succession) by specification of the exception, (of Prophethood) when he 
excludes him from it by mentioning “after”. 


Proofs similar to these are so numerous that it would make the book unduly long 


to mention them all, (especially) as we have examined thoroughly the statement 
of the evidence for them in other places in our books. Praise be to Allah. 


5 


The Imamate of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was for thirty 
years after the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. For twenty-four 
years and six months of these he was prevented from administering the laws 
(of the office) (and had to) exercise precautionary dissimulation (tagiyya) and 
withdrawal. For five years and six months of these, he was troubled by wars 
against the hypocrites, those who broke their pledges, the unjust and those who 
deviated (from the religion) and he was plagued by the seditions of those who 
had gone astray. In the same way the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, had been prevented from (administering) the laws (of his office) 
through fear and through being spied upon, and through being a fugitive and 
through being exiled, so that he had no power to fight the unbelievers and no 
means of defending the believers. Then he emigrated and for ten years after the 
emigration he remained making war on the unbelievers and being troubled by 
the hypocrites until the time that Allah, may His name be exalted, took him unto 
Himself and made him dwell in the gardens of Paradise. 


The death of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him occurred before 
dawn of Friday, the twenty-first of the month of Ramadan, in the year 40 A.H. 
He was a victim of the sword. Ibn Muljam al-Muradi, may Allah curse him, 
killed him at the mosque of Ktfa, which he had come out to in order to wake 
the people for the dawn prayer on the night of the nineteenth of the month of 
Ramadan. He had been lying in wait for him from the beginning of the night. 
When he (the Commander of the Faithful) passed by him while the latter was 
hiding his design by feigning sleep amid a group of people who were asleep, he 
(Ibn Muljam) sprang out and struck him on the top of his head with his sword 
which was poisoned. He lingered through the day of the nineteenth and the night 
and day of the twentieth and the first third of the night of the twenty-first. Then 
he, peace be on him, died a martyr and met his Lord, Most High, as one who has 
been wronged. He, peace be on him, knew of that before its time and he told the 
people of it before its time. His two sons, al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be on 
them, performed (the tasks) of washing him and shrouding him according to his 
bequest. Then they carried him to al-Ghari at Najaf in Kufa and they buried him 
there. They removed the traces of the place of his burial according to his bequest 
which was made about that to both of them by him, because of what he, peace be 
on him, knew about the regime of the ‘Umayyads (which would come) after him, 
and their hostile attitude towards him. (For he knew) the evil action and abuse to 
which they would be led by their wicked intentions if they had been able to know 
that (place). His grave, peace be on him, remained hidden until al-Sadiq Ja‘far 
b. Muhammad, peace be on them, pointed it out during the ‘Abbasid regime. 
For he visited it when he came to visit Abii Ja‘far (al-Mansir) while the latter 
was in al-Hira. Then the Shi‘a knew of it and they began from that time to make 


6 


visitation to his (grave), peace be on him and on his pure offspring. 
On the day of his death he was 63 years of age. 


REPORTS OF HIM, PEACE BE ON HIM, MENTIONING AND KNOWING 
ABOUT THE EVENT (OF HIS DEATH) BEFORE ITS OCCURRENCE 


[It is reported on the authority of ‘Ali b. al-Mundhir al-Tariqi, on the authority 
of Abii al-Fadl al-‘Abdi, on the authority of Fitr, on the authority of Abt Tufayl 
‘Amir b. Wathila, may Allah be pleased with him, who said:]! 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, gathered the people for the 
pledge of allegiance. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Muljam al-Muradi, may Allah curse 
him, came but he (i.e. ‘Alt) refused to accept his (pledge of allegiance) twice or 
three times. Then he (let him) make his pledge of allegiance to him. When he 
did so, he (i.e. ‘Al1) said to him: “What prevents the most wretched person of the 
community (from doing his wicked deed now)? For I swear by Him in Whose 
hand is my life, you will colour this (with blood) from this.” And he put his hand 
on his beard and his head. 


When Ibn Muljam withdrew and left him, he, peace be on him, recited the 
following: 

Stiffen your breast for death. Indeed death will meet you. 

Do not show grief at death, when it arrives in your valley. 


[It is related from al-Hasan b. Mahbub, on the authority of Abi: Hamza al- 
Thumali, on the authority of Abt Ishaq al-Sabi1’1, on the authority of al-Asbagh 
b. Nubata, who said:] 

Ibn Muljam came to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and 
pledged allegiance to him with the (others) who pledged their allegiance, and 
withdrew from him. Then the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
called him back and warned him to be trustworthy and to be sure that he was 
not treacherous and did not break his oath. He did that (i.e. promised to keep 
his word). Then he withdrew. A second time the Commander of the Faithful 
called him (back) and warned him to be trustworthy and to be sure that he was 
not treacherous and did not break his oath. Ibn Muljam, may Allah curse him, 
said: “By Allah, O Commander of the Faithful, I have not seen you do this with 
anyone else except me.” 


1 cf. Magatil al-Talibiyyin, 31. The tradition is cited by Ibn Sa‘d on the authority of al-Fad] b. 
Dukayn, al-Tabagat al-Kubra (Beirut, 1978), II, 33; al-Baladhuri has the same tradition on the 
authority of Ibn Sa‘d, Ansab al-Ashraf (Beirut, 1974), II, 500. The text of al-Irshad had Abit Fadl 
al-‘ Abdi. This has been corrected. 


Then the Commander of the Faithful said: 
I want his friendship and he wants my death. The one who makes excuses 
to you is one of your bosom friends from (the tribe of) Murad.’ 


(Then the Commander of the Faithful continued): “Go, Ibn Muljam, I do not 
think that you will keep your word.” 


[It is related from Ja‘far b. Sulayman al-Dab‘T, on the authority of al-Mu‘alla b. 
Ziyad, who said:] 

‘Abd al-Rahmaan b. Muljam, may Allah curse him, came to the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, to ask to be provided with a horse. 

“O Commander of the Faithful,” he said, “provide me with a horse.” 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, turned toward him and then 
said to him, “You are ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Muljam al-Muradi?” 

“Yes,” he replied. 

“Ghazwan,” called (the Commander of the Faithful), “provide him with the 
roan.” 


That man came with a roan horse and Ibn Muljam, may Allah curse him, 
mounted it and took its reins. When he had gone away, the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him said: 
I want his friendship and he wants my death. The one who makes excuses 
to you is one of your bosom friends from (the tribe of) Murad. 


When he did what he did and struck the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him, he was captured after he came out of the mosque and then brought to the 
Commander of the Faithful. The latter said to him: “I have treated you as I have 
done, even though I knew that you would be my murderer. Yet, I treated you that 
way in order to seek Allah’s support against you.” 


There are other reports in which he, peace be on him, announces his own death 
to his family and companions before his murder. 


[Abt Zayd al-Ahwal reported on the authority of al-Ajlah, on the authority of 
the shaykhs of Kinda whom al-Ajlah said he heard say more than twenty times:] 
‘Alt said on the pulpit: “What prevents the most wretched person of the 
community dyeing this red with blood from above it?” And he, peace be on him, 
put his hand on his beard. 


2 This verse is also reported by Magatil al-Talibiyyin, 31, Ibn Sa‘d, op. cit., 34, with a different 


isnad. It is given in a slightly different story in the next report. The verse is also cited by Ibn 
Ziyad in his confrontation with Hani’ b. ‘Urwa, cf. 


8 


[‘Alt b. al-Hazawwar on the authority of al-Asbagh b. Nubata, who said:] 

‘Alt preached in the month in which he was killed and he said: “The month of 
Ramadan has come to you. It is the lord of the months, and foremost of the year. 
In it the mill of authority makes a (new) turn and you will make the pilgrimage 
of the (new) year in one rank (i.e. without an Imam to lead you). The sign of that 
will be that I will no longer be among you.” 


[Al-Asbagh added:] He was announcing his own death but we did not 
understand. 


[It is related from al-Fad1 b. Dukayn, on the authority of Hayyan b. al-‘ Abbas, on 
the authority of ‘Uthman b. al-Mughira who said:] 

When the month of Ramadan began, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him, had supper one evening with al-Hasan, one evening with al-Husayn, peace 
be on them, and one evening with ‘Abd Allah b. al-‘ Abbas. He never had more 
than three mouthfuls (of food). One of those nights he was asked about that, he 
replied: “(I would rather) the decision of Allah come to me while I was hungry.” 
It was only a night of two nights later when he, peace be on him, was struck 
towards the end of the night. 


[Isma‘il b. Ziyad reported, on the authority of Umm Misa, a woman servant of 
“Alt, peace be on him, and the wet-nurse of his daughter, peace be on her, who 
told me:] 

‘Alt, peace be on him, said to his daughter, Umm Kulthtim,: “O my little 
daughter, little time is left for me to be with you.” 

“Why is that, father?” she asked. 

“T have seen the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, in my 
sleep,” he replied. “He was rubbing the dust from my face and saying: ‘O ‘AN, 
do not be concerned, you have accomplished what you had to.’” 


Only three days later he was struck by that blow. Umm Kulthim cried aloud 
(with sorrow). 

“Don’t do that, my daughter,” he said. “For I see the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, pointing to me with his hand and saying: ‘O ‘AI, 
come to us, for what we have is better for you.’” 


[‘Ammar al-Duhni reported on the authority of Abu Salih al-Hanafi, who said:] 
I heard ‘Alt, peace be on him, saying: “I saw the Prophet, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, in my sleep and I complained to him about the trouble and 
quarrelling which I had met from his community. Then I wept. He said: ‘Don’t 
weep, ‘Ali, but turn around.’ I turned around. Behold, there were two fettered 


9 


men, and then their heads were crushed by stones.”? 


[Abu Salih added:] I went to him in the morning as I had done every morning, 
and when I got to the (area of) the butchers I met the people who were saying: 
“The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, has been killed.” 


[‘Abd Allah b. Misa related, on the authority of al-Hasan b. Dinar, on the 
authority of al-Hasan al-Basri, who said:] 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, stayed up awake during the 
night on the morning of which he was killed and he did not go out to the mosque 
for the night prayer as was his custom. His daughter, Umm Kulthiim, the mercy 
of Allah be on her, asked him: “What has kept you awake?” 

“T will be killed, if I go out in the morning,” he replied. 


Then Ibn al-Nabbah came to him and summoned him to the prayer. He walked 
out a little way then returned. Umm Kulthtm said to him: “Tell Ja‘da to pray 
with the people.” 

“Yes, tell Ja‘da to perform the prayer with the people,” he answered. But then he 
said: “There is no escape from the appointed time.” 


He went out to the mosque and there was the man who had spent the whole night 
lying in wait for him. However, when it had become cold in the early morning 
before dawn, he had fallen asleep. Now, the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, moved him with his foot and said to him: “The prayer.” 

The man got up and struck him. 


[In another account: ] 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, spent that night awake and he 
frequently went out and looked up to the sky, saying: “By Allah, I have not lied 
nor have I been lied to. It is the night which I was promised.” 


Then he went back to his bed. When dawn rose, he put on his waist-cloth (izar) 
and went out saying: 

Stiffen your breast for death. Indeed death will meet you. 

Do not show grief at death, when it arrives in your valley. 


When he reached the courtyard of his house, the geese met him and hooted in his 


face. (The people) began to drive them away but he said: “Leave them, they are 
those who wail (for my death).” 


3 Reference to the punishment Ibn Muljam and Shabib b. Bajura will receive from Allah. 


10 


He, peace be on him, went out and was struck down. 


REPORTS WHICH HAVE COME DOWN OF THE MOTIVE FOR HIS MURDER 
AND HOW THE EVENT OCCURRED 


[What is reported by a group of historians (ah/ al-siyar), including Abt Mikhnaf, 
Isma‘Tl b. Rashid, Abii Hashim al-Rifa‘1, Abu ‘Amr al-Thaqafi and others who 
relate:]* 

A group of the Kharijites gathered at Mecca and they mentioned the leaders 
(of the people) and blamed them and their actions. They mentioned the people 
of al-Nahrawan and they asked Allah’s mercy for them. Then they said to each 
other: “If (only) we devoted ourselves to Allah, and went to the leaders (Imams) 
of error (dala!) and sought a moment when they were inattentive and then rid the 
country and men of them for the sake of Allah, and also avenged our brothers, 
the martyrs of al-Nahrawan.” 


They made a compact to do that after performing the pilgrimage. ‘Abd al-Rahman 
b. Muljam, may Allah curse him, said: “I’1l take care of (killing) ‘Alt for you.” 
Al-Burak b. ‘Abd Allah al-Tamimi said: “I will take care of (killing) Mu’awiya 
for you.” 

‘Amr b. Bakr al-Tamtmi said: “I will take care of (killing) ‘Amr b. al-‘As for 


” 


you. 


They made a compact to do that and bound themselves to its fulfilment. They 
agreed (to carry it out) on the night of the nineteenth of the month of Ramadan. 
On that they separated. 


Ibn Muljam, may Allah curse him, set out - he was numbered among Kinda - 
until he came to Kifa. There he met his colleagues. But he kept his task secret 
from them out of fear that something of it might get spread around. The situation 
was like this when one day he visited one of his colleagues from Taym al-Rabab. 
At this man’s house he met by chance Qatam, daughter of al-Akhdar of Taym. 
The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, had killed her father and 
brother at al-Nahrawan. She was (also) one of the most beautiful of the women 
of her time. When Ibn Muljam, may Allah curse him, saw her, he fell in love 
with her and his admiration of her became very intense. He asked to marry her 
and became engaged to her. Then she said to him: “What dowry do you suggest 
for me?” 


4 The following account agrees with Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 31-33. It is slightly rearranged and 
there are occasional small differences in words. Al-Mufid even accepts Abi al-Faraj’s collected 
isnad and cites his three principal authorities. 


11 


“Make your decision on that,” he answered. 


“T have decided,” she said, “that you should give me three thousand dirhams, a 
young serving boy, a servant and the murder of ‘Ali b. Abi Talib.” 

“You can have all you asked for,” he replied. “But as for the murder of ‘Ali b. 
Abi Talib, how can I do that?” 


“You should look (for a time) when he is careless,” she said. “If you kill him, 
I will cure myself (of my obsession against him) and life with me will be a 
pleasure for you. If you are killed, Allah has nothing in this world which is better 
for you (than such a death).” 

“The only thing which has brought me to this town (misr),” he said, “when I was 
a fugitive from it and could find no protection with its inhabitants, was to kill 
‘Alt b. Abi Talib, which you have asked me for. So you will have what you have 
asked for.” 


“T have been looking for someone to help you and strengthen you in that 
(undertaking),” she said. Then she went to Wardan b. Mujalid (another) from 
Taym al-Rabab. She gave him the information and asked help for Ibn Muljam, 
may Allah curse him. He undertook to share responsibility for that for her. 


Then Ibn Muljam, may Allah curse him, went out and came to a man from 
Ashja‘ called Shabib b. Bajura and said to him: “Shabib, would you like nobility 
(sharaf) in this world and the next life?” 

“What is that?” he asked. 

“Will you help me to kill ‘Alt b. Abi Talib?” 


Shabib was one who held the view of the Kharijites, so he said to Ibn Muljam: 
“May a wailing woman wail for you (at your death), Ibn Muljam. For you have 
come to something which is horrific. How will you be able to do it?” 


“We will lie in wait for him in the great mosque,” Ibn Muljam, may Allah curse 
him, replied. “Then when he comes to the dawn prayer, we will attack him. If we 
kill him, we will satisfy ourselves and attain our vengeance.” 


He insisted until he agreed and went with him into the great mosque to Qatam, 
while she was performing the rite of i tikaf’ there and put up a tent. They both 
said to her: “We have reached agreement on killing this man.” 

“When you want (to do) that,” she said, “come to me in this place.” 


5 i tikafa ritual usually performed in Ramadan where a person cuts himself off from ordinary life 
by staying in a tent in a mosque. 


12 


Then they left her and waited for several days. They came to her finally on the 
night of Wednesday, the nineteenth of the month of Ramadan in the year 40 
A.H. She ordered some silk which she tied around their chests. They put on their 
swords, and went out and sat opposite at the door from which the Commander 
of the Faithful, peace be on him, would come out to the prayer. However before 
that, they had told al-Ash‘ath b. Qays of the resolution in their spirits to kill the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. Al-Ash‘ath b. Qays, may Allah 
curse him, agreed with them in what they had agreed upon. 


Hujr b. ‘Adi, may Allah have mercy on him, was (also) spending that night in the 
mosque. He overheard al-Ash‘ath saying to Ibn Muljam: 
“Hurry, hurry to your task, for dawn is beginning to appear.” 


Hujr perceived the intention of al-Ash‘ath and said to him: “You are going to kill 
him, you one-eyed man.” 


He left directly to go to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and 
tell him the news to warn him about the group. However, the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, missed him on the way and went into the mosque. Ibn 
Muljam came to him first and struck him. Hujr approached as the people were 
crying: “The Commander of the Faithful has been killed!” 


[‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad al-Azdf has reported:]° 

On that night I was praying in the great mosque with men who were inhabitants 
of the town. During that month they used to pray from the beginning of the night 
to the end of it. I looked towards the men who were praying near the door and 
‘Alt b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, came out for the dawn prayer. He began to 
call out: “The prayer, the prayer.” 


I was hardly aware of the call before I saw the flashing of swords and I heard 
someone saying: “Judgement belongs to Allah, ‘Ali, not to you and your 
companions.” 


Then I heard ‘Al, peace be on him, saying: “Don’t let the man escape from you.” 


Then ‘Ali, peace be on him, was struck and Shabib b. Bajura came to strike him 
but he missed him, and his blow fell on air. The group fled towards the gates of 
the mosque and the people rushed to seize them. 


6 The following account is almost identical with Magatil al-Talibiyyin, 34-37. But the isndads 


have been omitted and the order slightly rearranged. There is one brief addition concerning the 
people going to ‘Ali and details about al-Ash‘ath are omitted. 


13 


A man caught Shabib b. Bajura, knocked him down and sat on his chest and 
took his sword to kill him with it. When he saw the people rushing towards him, 
he was afraid that they would act precipitately against him without listening to 
him. Therefore he jumped off him and let him go and threw the sword from his 
hand. Shabib made his escape to his house.Then his paternal cousin came to 
him. He saw him untying the silk cloth from his breast and said: “What is that? 
Perhaps (it was) you (who) killed the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him.” (Shabib) meant to say ‘no’ but he said “yes”. His cousin went away and 
put on his sword. Then he went to (Shabib) (again) and struck him with it until 
he killed him. 


One of the men from Hamdan followed Ibn Muljam, may Allah curse him. He 
flung his cloak over what was in Ibn Muljam’s hand and took his sword from 
him. Then he took him to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. In the 
meantime the third had escaped and dodged among the people. 


When Ibn Muljam, may Allah curse him, was brought before the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, the latter looked at him and said: “A life for a life. 
If I die, kill him as he killed me. If I live, I will consider my judgement on him.” 


“By Allah”, said Ibn Muljam, may Allah curse him, “I have bought his life for a 
thousand lives. I have plotted against him for a thousand lives. If he has betrayed 
me, then may Allah destroy him.” 

“Enemy of Allah,” cried out Umm Kulthtim, “you have killed the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him.” 

“T have killed only your father,” he retorted. 

“Enemy of Allah,” she cried, “I hope that there is no danger for him.” 

“T think you are only crying for “Ali,” he replied. “Indeed, by Allah, I struck 
him. If I had been divided among the people of the land, I should have destroyed 
them.” 


Then he was taken from his presence, peace be on him, while the people 
(wanted) to tear his flesh with their teeth as if they were wild beasts. They were 
crying out: “O enemy of Allah, what have you done? You have destroyed the 
community of Muhammad, may Allah bless Him and His Family. You have 
killed the best of people.” 


He was silent and did not speak. He was taken to the prison.’ Then the people 
went to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and said: “(Commander 


7 See above. The account, which follows, of the people visiting the dying ‘Ali is not in Magatil 
al-Talibiyyin. 


14 


of the Faithful, give us your order about the enemy of Allah. For he has destroyed 
the community, and corrupted the faith.” 


“If I live,” answered the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, “then I 
will consider my judgement on him. But if I die then do to him what the Prophet 
did with a murderer. Kill him and after that burn him in a fire.” 


When the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, died (the people) wept 
for him. (After) his family had finished his burial, al-Hasan, peace be on him, 
sat in council and ordered Ibn Muljam to be brought to him. He was brought 
to him and when he stood before him (al-Hasan) said: “O enemy of Allah, you 
have killed the Commander of the Faithful and you have increased corruption in 
religion.” 

Then he ordered him to be beheaded. Umm al-Haytham, daughter of al-Aswad 
of al-Nakha‘a asked to be given his corpse so that she could be in charge of 
burning it. He gave it to her and he made her burn it in a fire.* 


The poet said about the affair of Qatam and the killing of the Commander of the 
Faithful peace be upon him: 
I have never seen a dowry, given by a generous man, like the dowry of 
Qatam (whether the man was) rich or needy. 
(It was) three thousand (dirhams), a slave and a young servant, and the 
striking of ‘Ali with a sharp piercing sword. 
(There has been) no dowry more precious - and no violence except that it 
was less than the violence of Ibn Muljam.’ 


As for the two men who were in agreement with Ibn Muljam to kill Mu’awiya 
and ‘Amr b. Al. ‘As, the one struck Mu‘awiya while he was bending (in 
prayer). However his blow was delivered weakly and he was saved from its 
consequences. The man was seized and killed immediately. As for the other he 
went (to carry out) his mission that night. However ‘Amr had felt sick and had 
put a man in his place to pray with the people; the man was called Kharija b. Abt 
Habiba al-‘Amiri. He struck with his sword when he thought that it was ‘Amr. 
He was seized and taken to ‘Amr who had him killed. Kharija died on the second 
day.!° 


8 cf. ibid., 41. 
9 cf. ibid., 37. 
10 Summary of ibid., 30. 


REPORTS ABOUT THE PLACE OF THE GRAVE OF THE COMMANDER OF 
THE FAITHFUL, PEACE BE ON HIM, AND AN EXPLANATION OF THE 
CIRCUMSTANCES OF HIS BURIAL 


[‘Abbad b. Ya‘qib al-Rawajini related: Hayyan b. ‘Ali al-‘Anazi told us: A 
retainer of ‘Ali b. Abt Talib told me:] 

When death was close to the Commander of the Faithful he said to al-Hasan and 
al-Husayn, peace be on them: “When I die, you two put me on my bier. Then take 
me out and carry (me) in the back of the bier. You two will protect the front of 
it. Then bring me to al-Ghariyyayn. You will see a white rock shining with light. 
Dig there and you will find a shield and bury me at it.” 


When he died, we took him out and began to carry him on the back of the bier 
while we guarded the front of it. We began to hear a rustling and whistling of the 
wind until we came to al-Ghariyyayn. Behold! There was a white rock whose 
light was shining. We dug there and behold, there was a shield on which was 
written: “This is one of the things which Noah has stored for ‘Alt b. Abt Talib.” 
We buried him there and went away. We were happy at Allah’s mark of honour to 
the Commander of the Faithful. A group of the Shi‘a followed us but they had not 
witnessed the prayer performed for him. We told them about what had happened 
and about Allah’s mark of honour to the Commander of the Faithful. 


Then they said: “We would like to see what you have seen of his affair.” 
“Traces of the place have been removed according to his bequest,” we told them. 
They kept coming back and forth to us and they told us that they had dug but 
could not find anything. 


[Muhammad b. ‘Umara related: Jabir b. Yazid al-Ju’ fi told me:] 
I asked Abii Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘Ali al-Bagir where the Commander of the 
Faithful was buried. 


“He is buried,” he answered, “in the region of al-Ghariyyayn. He was buried 
before the dawn rose and al-Hasan, al-Husayn, peace be on them, and Muhammad, 
the sons of? ‘Alt, and ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far, may Allah be pleased with him, went 
into his grave.” 


[Ya‘qtb b. Yazid reported on the authority of Ibn Abi ‘Umayr, on the authority 
of his men:]"' 
Al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, peace be on them, was asked: “Where did you bury the 


11 Ibid., 42. 


Commander of the Faithful?” He answered: “We went out with him at night past 
the Mosque of al-Ash’ath until we brought him out on the upper ground beside 
al-Ghariyyayn. We buried him there.” 


[Muhammad b. Zakariyya reported: ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad told us on the 
authority of Ibn ‘A’isha, who said: ‘Abd Allah b. Hazim told me:] 

We went out from Kufa one day with (Hartin) al-Rashid to hunt. We came to the 
region of al-Ghariyyayn and al-Thawiyya. Then we saw some gazelle. We sent 
the falcons and dogs after them. They raced after them for an hour but then the 
gazelle took refuge in a hill. They stopped chasing them; the falcons flew down 
to the ground and the dogs came back. Al-Rashid was amazed at that. Then the 
gazelles came down from the hill, and the falcons and dogs descended towards 
them. The gazelle returned to the hill, and the falcons and dogs came away from 
them. That happened three times. 


Then (Harin) al-Rashid said: “Hurry and bring me whoever you meet.” 

We brought him an old man (shaykh) of the Bani Asad. Haritin asked him: “Tell 
me what this hill is.” 

“T will tell you, if you grant me a pledge of security,” he replied. 

“You may have the compact of Allah and His guarantee that I will not be roused 
against you and harm you,” said Harun. 

“My father reported to me from his father,” said the old man, “that they used to 
say that in this hill was the grave of ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, and that Allah has made it 
a sanctuary (Haram) so that whatever seeks refuge there will be safe.” 


Hartin got down and called for water. Then he made ritual ablutions and 
performed the prayer at the hill. He rolled in the ground there and began to weep. 
Then we left. 


My mind could not accept that. Some days later I made the pilgrimage to Mecca. 
I saw there Yasir, one of al-Rashid’s men. He used to sit with us. When we had 
made the tawwaf (circumambulation of the Ka‘ba), the conversation went on 
until he said: 

Al-Rashid said to me one night when we had come from Mecca and stopped at 
Kifa: “Tell ‘Isa b. Ja‘far to come riding with me.” 


I rode with them both until we came to al-Ghariyyayn. ‘Isa threw himself 
down and slept. But al-Rashid went to the hill and prayed there. Whenever he 
performed two rak‘as he called out, wept and rolled in the ground of the 
hill. Then he said: “O cousin, I know your outstanding merit (fad/), and your 
precedence (in Islam). By Allah, you have sat in my majlis (council) while I was 


17 


there and you were what you were: but your descendants are harming me and 
revolting against me.” 


After this he stood and prayed two rak ‘as, then he began speaking again, calling 
out and weeping until it was daybreak. Then he said: “Yasir, wake ‘Isa.” I woke 
him and he said to him: “‘Isa, wake up and pray at the grave of your cousin.” 
“What cousin of mine is this?” asked ‘Isa. 

“This is the grave of ‘Ali b. ‘Abi Talib,” he replied. 


Then ‘Isa made his ritual ablutions and stood up to pray. He did not stop doing 
that until the dawn arose. Then I said: “O Commander of the Faithful, morning 
has come.” So we rode off and returned to Kufa.

[[p 21]]
CHAPTER II 


VIRTUES, QUALITIES AND ACIEVEMENTS 
OF THE 
COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


(This Chapter includes) a sample of the reports about the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, (including) his virtues and his eminent qualities, 
together with (some of) what has been preserved of his wise sayings and 
sermons, and (some of) what is told of his miracles, legal judgements and 
explanations.' 


REPORTS OF HIS PRIORITY IN BELIEF IN ALLAH AND His APOSTLE AND 
OF HIS BEING THE FIRST OF ALL RESPONSIBLE MEN IN (FAITH) 


[Abu al-Jaysh al-Muzaffar b. Muhammad al-Balkhit informed me: Abi Bakr 
Muhammad b. Ahmad b. Abi Thalj informed us: Abi al-Hasan Ahmad b. 
(Muhammad b.) al-Qasim al-Barqi told us: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Salih al-Azdi 
told me: Asad b. ‘Ubayda told us on the authority of Yahya b. ‘Afif b. Qays, on 
the authority of his father (‘Afif b. Qays),” who said:) 

I was sitting with al-‘Abbas b.‘Abd al-Muttalib, may Allah be pleased with him, 
in Mecca, before the affairs of the Prophet became known to the public. A man 
came and looked up towards the sky where the sun hovered above. He turned in 
the direction of the Ka‘ba and stood to pray. Then a youth came and stood at his 
right and a woman came and stood behind them both. The man bowed, and the 
youth and the woman bowed. The man raised his hands and the youth and the 
woman raised their hands. Then he prostrated and they both prostrated. 


“* Abbas!” I exclaimed, “‘it is a fantastic affair!” 

“Indeed, it is a fantastic affair,” replied al-‘Abbas. “Do you know who that man 
is? He is Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah b.‘Abd al-Muttalib, my cousin. Do you 
know who that youth is? He is ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, my cousin. Do you know who 
that woman is? She is Khadija, daughter of Khuwaylid. This cousin of mine (i.e. 
Muhammad) has told me that his Lord is the Lord of the heavens and the earth, 
Who has ordered him to carry out this religion (din) which he is practising. No, 
by Allah, there are not any on the face of the earth, who practise this religion 


1 Although mentioned here by al-Mufid, the arrangement of the chapters in the translations means 
that the sayings and sermons and miracles and legal judgments will be dealt with in separate 
chapters. 

2 Al-Tabart, Ta ’rikh (Leiden 1879-1901) I, 1160-1. The isnad has the same three first authorities, 
but it seems from the full isndd that it was not taken from al-Tabart. 


19 


except these three.” 


[Abu Hafs ‘Umar b. Muhammad al-Sayrafi informed me: Muhammad b. Ahmad 
b. Abt Thalj told me on the authority of Ahmad b. Muhammad b. al-Qasim al- 
Barqi, on the authority of Abu Salih Sahl b. Salih - it was about the year 100 (A. 
H.) - who said I heard Abt al-Mu‘ammar ‘Abbad b.‘Abd al-Samad who said: I 
heard Anas b. Malik say:] 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “The angels 
bless me and ‘Alt for seventy years, because (for a time) only ‘Ali and I raised 
the testimony to heaven that there is no God but Allah and Muhammad is the 
Apostle of Allah.” 


[By the same chain of transmitters on the authority of Ahmad b. (Muhammad 
b.) al-Qasim al-Barqi: Ishaq told us: Nth b. Qays told us: Sulayman b. ‘Ali al- 
Hashimi Abi Fatima told us: I heard Mu‘adha al-‘ Adawiyya say:] 

I heard ‘Ali b. Abt Talib say on the pulpit at Basra: “I am the greater testifier of 
truth (siddiq) for I believed before Abt Bakr believed; I became a Muslim before 
he became a Muslim.” 


[Abia Nasr Muhammad b. al-Husayn al-Mugri al-Basri al-Sayrawani informed: 
Abi Bakr Muhammad b. (Ahmad b.) Abi Thalj told us: Abi Muhammad 
al-Nawfalt told us on the authority of Muhammad b.‘Abd al-Hamid, on the 
authority of ‘Umar b.‘Abd al-Ghiffar al-Faqimi who said: Ibrahim b. Hayyan 
reported to me on the authority of Abt ‘Abd Allah, retainer of Bani Hashim, on 
the authority of Abi Sukhayla, who said:] 

I and ‘Ammar went on the pilgrimage. We stopped at the house of Abi Dharr, 
may Allah be pleased with him, and stayed with him for three days. When the 
time of our departure was at hand, I said to him: “Abia Dharr, we consider that 
nothing except confusion has come over the people. What is your view?” 


“Cleave to the Book and ‘Ali b. Abt Talib,” he replied, “then bear witness to the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, who said: “‘Ali was the 
first to believe in me and will be the first to shake my hand in greetings on the 
Day of Resurrection. He is the greatest testifier of the truth (siddiq) and discerner 
of truth and falsehood. He is the chief of the believers and money is the chief 
cause of wrong-doing.’” 


Al-Shaykh al-Mufid, may Allah be pleased with him, comments: The reports 
with this meaning are numerous as testimonies (of it) are bulky. 


[Among such are the words of Khuzayma b. Thabit al-Ansari, the man who gave 


20 


two testimonies, in what was reported to me by Abt ‘Abd Allah Muhammad b. 
‘Imran al-Marzubani on the authority of Muhammad b. al-‘Abbas who said:] 
Muhammad b. Yazid al-Nahwi recited to us on the authority of Ibn ‘A’isha (the 
words) of Khuzayma b. Thabit al-Ansari, may Allah be pleased with him: 
I never thought that this affair would leave the clan of Hashim, and then 
within it (that) it would leave Abi Hasan (i.e. ‘Ali). 


Was he not the first to pray with their (i.e. the Muslims’) gibla (direction 
of prayer), and the most knowledgeable man in traditions and practice? 


(Was he not) the last of men with whom the Prophet made a covenant 
(‘ahd), and the one whose helper was Gabriel in washing and shrouding 
(the body of the Prophet)? 


He it is in whom there is what others are not distinguished by. There is not 
among the people the good which is in him. 


What is it which makes you reject him, for we know him? Yet your pledge 
of allegiance is made through the greatest cheating. 


REPORTS OF HIS OUTSTANDING MERIT, PEACE BE ON HIM, OVER 
EVERYBODY IN RELIGIOUS KNOWLEDGE (‘ILM) 


[Abu al-Hasan Muhammad b. Ja‘far al-Tamimi al-Nahwi informed me: 
Muhammad b. al-Qasim al-Muharibi al-Bazzaz told me: Hisham b. Yunis 
al-Nahshali told us: ‘A’idh b. Habib told us on the authority of Abi al-Sabbah 
al-Kinani, on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Abd al-Rahman al-Sulami, on 
the authority of his father, on the authority of ‘Ikrima, on the authority of Ibn 
‘Abbas, who said:] 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “‘Alt b. Abt 
Talib is the most learned of my community and the most capable of giving legal 
decisions after me in (matters upon) which (men) differ.” 


[Abi Bakr Muhammad b. ‘Umar al-Ji‘abi informed me: Ahmad b. ‘Isa Abi 
Ja‘far al-‘Ijlt told us: Isma‘Tl b.‘Abd Allah b. Khalid told us: ‘Ubayd Allah b. 
‘Umar told us: ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad b.‘Aqil told us on the authority of 
Hamza b. Abi Sa‘id al-Khudri, on the authority of his father (Abt Sa‘td al- 
Khudrt), who said:] 

I heard the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, say: “J am 
the city of knowledge and ‘AI1 is its gate. Therefore whoever wants knowledge 
should learn it from ‘Ali, peace be on him.” 


21 


[Abu Bakr Muhammad b. ‘Umar al-Ji‘abi informed me: Yusuf b. al-Hakam al- 
Hannat told us: Dawud b. Rashid told us: Salama b. Salih al-Ahmar told us on 
the authority of ‘Abd al-Malik b. ‘Abd al Rahman, on the authority of al-Ash‘ath 
b. Taliq who said: I heard al-Hasan al-‘Arani relating on the authority of Murra, 
on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. Mas‘ad, who said:] 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, summoned ‘Ali and 
went apart with him. When he returned to us, we asked him: “What covenant 
(‘Ahd) did he make with you?” He replied: “He taught me a thousand doors of 
knowledge and he opened from each (of these) doors a thousand (more) doors.” 


[Abu al-Hasan Muhammad b. al-Muzaffar al-Bazzaz informed me: Abt: Malik 
Kuthayyir b. Yahya told us: Abt Ja‘far Muhammad b. Abi al-Sirrt told us: Ahmad 
b. ‘Abd Allah b. Yiinis told us on the authority of Sa‘d al-Kinani, on the authority 
of al-Asbagh b. Nubata who said:] 

When the pledge of allegiance was made to the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, for the caliphate, he went out to the mosque wearing the turban 
and cloak of the Apostle of Allah, peace be on Him and His Family. He went up 
on the pulpit. After praising and glorifying Allah, and giving admonition and 
warning, he sat down confidently, knitted his fingers together and placed them 
on his stomach. Then he said: “Question me before you lose me. Question me, 
for I have the knowledge of those who came earlier and those who will come 
later. If the cushion (on which a judge sits) was folded for me (to sit on), I could 
give judgements to the people of the Torah by their Torah, to the people of the 
Gospels by their Gospels, to the people of Psalms by their Psalms and to the 
people of the Furqan (i.e. Qur’an) by their Furqan, so that each one of these 
books will be fulfilled and will declare, ‘O Lord, indeed ‘Ali has given 
judgement according to Your decree.’ By Allah, I know the Qur’an and its 
interpretation (better) than anyone who claims knowledge of it. If it were not 
for one verse in the Book of Allah, most High, I would be able to inform you 
of what will be until the Day of Resurrection.” Then he said: “Question me 
before you lose me, for by Him Who split the seed and brought the soul into 
being, if you questioned me about (it) verse by verse, I would tell you of the 
time of its revelation and why it was revealed, I would inform of the abrogating 
(verse) and the abrogated, of the specific and general, the clearly defined and the 
ambiguous, of the Meccan and the Medinan. By Allah, there is not a party who 
can lead astray or guide until the Day of Resurrection, without me knowing its 
leader, the one who drives it forward and the one who urges it on.” 


Examples of such reports are (so many) that the book would become (unduly) 
long in (reporting) them. 


22 


REPORTS OF HIS OUTSTANDING MERIT, THE BLESSING OF ALLAH BE ON 
HIM 


[Abu al-Hasan Muhammad b. al-Muzaffar al-Bazzaz informed me: ‘Umar b. 
‘Abd Allah b. ‘Imran told us: Ahmad b. Bashir told us: ‘Abd Allah b. Misa told 
us on the authority of Qays b. Abi Hartin who said: I went to Abi Sa‘id al-Khudri 
and asked him whether he had witnessed (the battle of) Badr. He said:] 

On that day (the Battle of Badr), I heard the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, speak to Fatima, peace be on her, when she came to him 
weeping and saying: “O Apostle of Allah, the women of Quraysh are reviling me 
because of the poverty of ‘All peace be on him.” 

“Aren’t you satisfied that I have married you to the first Muslim and the most 
knowledgeable of them?” the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
asked her. “Indeed, Allah, the Most High, looked thoroughly over the people of 
the earth and chose your father from them and made him a Prophet. Then He 
looked over them a second time and chose your (present) husband (ba ‘7) and 
made him a trustee of authority (wasz). Allah inspired me to marry you to him. 
Didn’t you know, Fatima, that through Allah’s kindness to you, your husband is 
the greatest of men in clemency, the most knowledgeable of men and the first of 
them in Islam.” 


Fatima laughed and rejoiced. Then the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, continued: “Fatima, ‘Alt has eight molar teeth. No one before and after 
him will have the like. He is my brother in the world and the hereafter. No one 
else of the people has that (rank). Fatima, the mistress of the women of heaven, 
is his wife. The grandsons of mercy, my grandsons, will be his sons. His brother, 
who will be adorned by two wings in heaven, will fly with the angels wherever 
he wishes. He has the knowledge of those who came before and those who will 
come after. He is the first who believed in me and he will be the last of the people 
to see me. He is my trustee of authority (was7) and the inheritor (warith) of (all) 
the trustees of authority (wasiyyin).” 


[Al-Shaykh al-Mufid, may Allah be pleased with him, said: I have found (the 
following report) in the book of Abt Ja‘far Muhammad b. al-‘ Abbas al-Raz1 who 
said: Muhammad b. Khalid told us: Ibrahim b. ‘Abd Allah told us: Muhammad 
b. Sulayman al-Daylami told us on the authority of Jabir b. Yazid al-Ju‘fi, on the 
authority of ‘Adit b. Hakim, on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. al-‘Abbas, who 
said:] 

We, (the members) of the house (AA/ al-bayt) have seven qualities none of which 
the (rest of the) people have: 


23 


From us (came) the Prophet may Allah bless Him and His Family; 

From us came the trustee of authority (was7), the best of this community after 
him (i.e. Prophet), ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him 

From us came Hamza, the lion of Allah and of His Apostle, and the lord of 
martyrs; 

From us came Ja‘far b. Abi Talib who is adored by two wings with which he 
flies in heaven wherever he wishes; 

From us (came) the two grandsons of this community, the two lords of the youth 
of paradise, al-Hasan and al-Husayn; 

From us (came) the (one who will undertake the Imamate for the rest of time) 
Qa ‘im of the family of Muhammad, by which Allah graced His Prophet; 

From us (came) the one who was given (final) victory (a/-mansiir). 


[Muhammad b. Ayman related on the authority of Abt. Hazim, retainer of Ibn 
‘Abbas, who said:] 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, spoke to ‘Alt b. Abi 
Talib, peace be on him: 

“Ali, you will be engaged in disputes but you will overcome any dispute by 
seven qualities, the like of which no one else has: you are the first of those who 
believed with me, the greatest of them in war, the most knowledgeable of them 
in the battles (ayyam) on behalf of Allah, the one of them who is most loyal in 
keeping the covenant (‘Ahd) of Allah, the most compassionate of them towards 
subjects, the most capable of giving equal treatment and the greatest of them in 
distinction before Allah.” 


Reports like this and in the same sense as this, which are better known by both 
the general populace and the Shi‘a (Ahassa) are (so clear) that there is no need to 
lengthen (matters) with an explanation. Yet if there was only the tradition whose 
story is well known, whose narration has been spread abroad, of the bird and 
the words of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family: “O Allah, bring 
the creature most lovable to you to eat (some) of this bird with me,” and then 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, came, it would be sufficient 
(to show that) he was the most lovable creature to Allah, the greatest in reward 
from Him, the nearest to Him, and the most outstanding in his action. (Similar) is 
the case of the words of Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah al-Ansart when he was asked about 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and he said, “He is the best of 
men. Only an unbeliever could doubt clear proof.” Jabir had supported that in a 
narrative which has come through an uninterrupted chain of transmitters, and is 
well known to the traditionists (ahl al-naq!). The evidences for the fact that the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, is the most outstanding person 
after the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, are mutually 


24 


verifiable. If our purpose was to establish it (by reporting and analysing all the 
reports) we would have to set aside a book for it. The reports of what we have 
outlined are sufficient in so far as our intention is to give a summary, and put that 
in its (appropriate) place in this book. 


REPORTS OF LOVE FOR HIM, PEACE BE ON HIM, BEING A SIGN OF FAITH 
(IN A PERSON) AND HATRED OF HIM BEING A SIGN OF HYPocRrisy (IN A 
PERSON) 


[Abu Bakr Muhammad b. ‘Umar - known as Ibn al-Ji‘abi al-Hafiz - told us: 
Muhammad b. Sahl b. al-Hasan told us: Ahmad b. ‘Umar al-Dihgan told us: 
Muhammad b. Kathir told us: Isma‘tl b. Muslim told us: al-A‘mash told us on 
the authority of ‘Adi b. Thabit, on the authority of Zirr b. Hubaysh, who said:] 

I saw the Commander of the Faithful, ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, on the pulpit and I 
heard him say: “By Him Who split the seed and brought the soul into being, the 
Prophet made a promise (‘ahd) to me: ‘Only believers will love you and only 
hypocrites will hate you!” 


[Abu ‘Abd Allah Muhammad b. ‘Imran al-Marzubant informed me: ‘Abd Allah 
b. Muhammad b. ‘Abd al-‘Aziz al-Baghawi told us: ‘Ubayd Allah b. ‘Umar al- 
Qawariri told us: Ja‘far b. Sulayman told us: al-Nadr b. Hamid told us on the 
authority of Abi al-Jarid, on the authority of al-Harith al-Hamdani who said:] 

I saw ‘Alt, peace be on him. One day he came and went up on the pulpit. He 
praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: “A decree which Allah, the Most High, 
decreed by the tongue of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
was that only believers will love me and only hypocrites will hate me. Whoever 
forges a lie is lost.” 


[Abu al-Hasan Muhammad b. al-Muzaffar al-Bazzaz informed me: Muhammad 
b. Yahya told us: Muhammad b. Misa al-Barbari told us: Khalaf b. Salim told 
us: Waki‘ told us: al-A‘mash told us on the authority of ‘Adi b. Thabit, on the 
authority of Zirr b. Hubaysh, on the authority of the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, who said:] 

The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, made a promise (‘ahd) to me: 
“Only believers will love you and only hypocrites will hate you.” 


Reports of him, Peace be on him, and his Shi‘a Being the Successful 
Ones 


[Abu ‘Abd Allah Muhammad b. ‘Imran al-Marzubani informed me: ‘Ali b. 
Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah al-Hafiz told me: ‘Alt b. al-Husayn b. ‘Ubayd al-Kafi 


25 


told us: Isma‘il b. Aban told us on the authority of Sa‘d b. Talib, on the authority 
of Jabir b. Yazid, on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Alt al-Baqir, peace be on 
them both, who said:] 

Umm Salama, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was 
asked about ‘Alt b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, she said: “I heard the Apostle of 
Allah say: “‘Ali and his Shi‘a are the successful ones’” 


[Abu ‘Abd Allah Muhammad b. ‘Imran informed me: Ahmad b. Muhammad 
al-Jawhari told me: Muhammad b. Harin b. ‘Isa al-Hashimi told me: Tamim b. 
Muhammad b. al-‘Ala told us: ‘Abd al-Razzaq told us: Yahya b. al-‘Ala told us 
on the authority of Sa‘d b. Tarif, on the authority of al-Asbagh b. Nubata, on the 
authority of ‘Ali, peace be on him, who said:] 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family said: “Allah, the 
Most High, has a cane of ruby which none will obtain except us and our Shi‘a. 
The rest of the people are excluded from it.” 


[Abu ‘Abd Allah informed me: ‘Ali b. Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah al-Hafiz told 
me: ‘Alt b. al-Husayn b. ‘Ubayd al-Kiafi told us: Isma‘1l b. Aban told us on 
the authority of ‘Amr b. Hurayth, on the authority of Dawud b. al-Salil, on the 
authority of Anas b. Malik, who said:] 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family said: “Seventy 
thousand of my community will enter Heaven without any reckoning and 
punishment against them.” Then he turned to ‘Ali, peace be on him and said: 
“They are your Shi‘a and you are their Imam.” 


[Abi ‘Abd Allah informed me: Ahmad b. ‘Isa al- Karkhi told me Abii al-‘ Ayna 
Muhammad b. al-Qasim told us: Muhammad b. ‘A’isha told us on the authority 
of Isma‘1l b. ‘Amr al-Bajali, who told us: ‘Umar b. Misa told me on the authority 
of Zayd b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, on the authority of his father, on the authority of 
his (Zayd’s) grandfather, on the authority of ‘Ali, peace be on them, who said:] 
I complained to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, about 
the people’s envy of me. He said: “‘AIj, the first four to enter heaven are myself, 
you, al-Hasan and al-Husayn. Our progeny (will come) behind us and our loved 
ones will be behind our progeny. To our right and left will be our Shi‘a.” 


REPORTS OF FRIENDSHIP TO HIM, PEACE BE ON HIM, BEING A SIGN OF 
Goop BIRTH AND ENMITY TO HIM, BEING A SIGN OF DISGRACEFUL 
BIRTH 


[Abu al-Jaysh al-Muzaffar b. Muhammad al-Balkhit informed me: Abi Bakr 
Muhammad b. Ahmad b. Abi al-Thalj told us: Ja‘far b. Muhammad al-‘Alaw1 


26 


told us: Ahmad b. ‘Abd al-Mun‘im told us: ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad al-Fazart 
told us on the authority of Ja‘far b. Muhammad, on the authority of his father, 
peace be on them, on the authority of Jabir, b. ‘Abd Allah al-Ansari, who said:] 
I heard the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, say to ‘Alt 
b. Abt Talib, peace be on him: “Shall I not make you happy, give you a gift, tell 
you good news?” 

“Please do, Apostle of Allah,” he replied. 


“Both I, myself, and you have been created from one (piece of) clay. Part of it 
was left over and from that Allah created our Shi‘a. On the Day of Resurrection 
(all) the people will be summoned by the names of their mothers except our 
Shi‘a. They will be summoned by the names of their fathers because of their 
good birth.” 


[Abi al-Jaysh al-Muzaffar b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ahmad b. Abi al-Thalj who said: Muhammad b. Muslim al-Kafi 
told us: ‘Ubayd Allah b. Kathir told us: Ja‘far b. Muhammad b. al-Husayn al- 
Zuhri told us: ‘Ubayd Allah b. Musa told us on the authority of Isra’1l, on the 
authority of Abt Husayn, on the authority of ‘Ikrima, on the authority of Ibn 
‘Abbas: ] 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “On the Day 
of Resurrection all the people will be summoned by the names of their mothers 
except our Shi‘a. They will be summoned by the names of their fathers because 
of their good birth.” 


[Abu al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad al-Qumm?i told us: Abt ‘Alt Muhammad 
b. Hammam b. Suhayl al-Iskafi told us: Ja‘far b. Muhammad b. Malik told me: 
Muhammad b. Ni‘ma al-Salili told us: ‘Abd Allah b. al-Qasim, told us on the 
authority of ‘Abd Allah b. Jabala, on the authority of his father, who said: I heard 
Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah b. Hizan al-Ansari say:] 

One day a group of us Ansar were with the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family. He said to us: “O people of the Ansar, instill in your 
children a love for ‘Ali b. Abt Talib, peace be on him. Whoever loves him should 
know that he is rightly guided and whoever hates him should know that he is in 
error.” 


REPORTS OF THE APOSTLE OF ALLAH, MAY ALLAH BLESS HIM AND 
His FAMILY NAMING HIM, PEACE BE ON HIM, COMMANDER OF THE 
FAITHFUL DURING (THE PROPHET’S) LIFETIME. 


[Abi al-Jaysh al-Muzaffar b. Muhammad al-Balkht informed me: Abi Bakr 


27 


Muhammad b. Ahmad b. Abi al-Thalj informed me: al-Husayn b. Ayyiib 
informed me on the authority of Muhammad b. Ghalib, on the authority of ‘Ali 
b. al-Husayn, on the authority of al-Hasan b. Mahbub, on the authority of Abi 
Hamza al-Thumalj, on the authority of Abt Ishaq al-Sabi‘T, on the authority of 
Bashir al-Ghiffari, on the authority of Anas b. Malik, who said:] 

I was a servant of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 
One night Umm Habiba, daughter of Abt Sufyan, brought water for ablutions to 
the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He said to me: “Anas, 
at this moment there will come to you through this door the Commander of the 
Faithful, the best of testamentary trustees of authority (wasiyyin), the foremost 
of the people in Islam, and the most knowledgeable and most mindful of them.” 
“O Allah, make him one of my tribe,” I said. 


However, almost immediately ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, came through 
the door. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, performed 
his ablutions. Then the Apostle of Allah threw the water into, the face of the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on them both, so that both his eyes were 
filled with water. 


“Apostle of Allah, has any impurity occurred in me?” asked ‘AI1. 

“Only good has been occasioned in you,” replied the Prophet, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family. “You belong to me and I belong to you. You will act on my 
behalf, fulfill my duties, wash my (corpse) and bury me in my grave. You will 
listen to the people’s (questions) about me and you will explain to them after 


” 


me. 


“Apostle of Allah,” ‘Alt said, “haven’t you told them?” 
“Yes, but you will explain the things they differ on after me.” 


[Abi al-Jaysh al-Muzaffar b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ahmad b. Abi al-Thalj who said: My grandfather told me: ‘Abd 
Allah b. Dahir told us: My father, Dahir b. Yahya al-Ahmari al-Muqri told me on 
the authority of al-A‘mash, on the authority of ‘Abaya al-Asadi, on the authority 
of Ibn ‘Abbas:] 

The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said to Umm Salama, 
may Allah be pleased with her: “Listen and bear witness that this ‘Ali is the 
Commander of the Faithful and the master of the testamentary trustees.” 


[With the same isndd on the authority of Muhammad (b. Ahmad) b. Abi al-Thalj 


who said: my grandfather told me: ‘Abd al-Salam b. Salih told us: Yahya b. al- 
Yaman told us: Sufyan al-Thawri told us on the authority of Abt al-Jahhaf, on 


28 


the authority of Mu‘awiya b. Tha‘laba who said:] 

Abu Dharr, may Allah be pleased with him, was told: “Make a will.” 

“T have made my will,” he answered. 

“To whom?” he was asked. 

“To the Commander of the Faithful,” he replied. 

“To ‘Uthman?” 

“No,” he said. “To the Commander of the Faithful, ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on 
him. Indeed he is the pivot of the earth and the master of this community. If you 
lost him, you would not know the earth and those who were on it.” 


The report of Burayda b. Husayb al-Aslami is famous and well known among 
the religious scholars with (so many) ismdds that their full elucidation would be 
very long. He reported: 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, ordered me while I 
was the seventh of a group of seven which included Abi Bakr, ‘Umar, Talha and 
al-Zubayr: “Greet ‘Alt with the title of Commander of the Faithful.” 

We greeted him with that title while the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, lived among us. 


There are many reports like these which would make the book too long (to report 
them all). Allah is the bringer of truth. 


HIS QUALITIES 


As for his many qualities, the fact that they are so famous, so well authenticated 
and reported by tradition and by the consensus of the religious scholars (means) 
that they do not need their chains of authority to be put forward; for since they 
are (also) so numerous their full explanation would make the book too long. 
In our outline, an extract from them will do instead of reporting them all, in 
accordance with the purpose which we set down for this book, Allah willing. 


1. THE MEETING OF THE BANU ‘ABD AL-MUTTALIB 


Among these is the account that the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, gathered his own family and tribal kin together at the beginning of his 
mission for Islam. He showed them the faith and sought their help against the 
people of unbelief and enmity, and guaranteed for them, if they did that, favour 
and honour in this world and a reward in heaven. None of them answered him 
except the Commander of the Faithful, ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him. 
Because of that he granted him the achievement of brotherhood (with himself), 
the office of helping him, of being his nominated trustee, his inheritor and his 


29 


successor, and announced that his going to heaven was inevitable. 


This is reported in the account of the (meeting in the) house, whose authenticity 
the reporters of tradition are agreed upon: 

When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, gathered 
members of the clan of ‘Abd al-Muttalib in the house of Abi Talib, they were 
more or less forty men on that day as the reporters mention. He ordered food to 
be set for them, a leg of a ewe with a measure of wheat. He measured a sa ‘a of 
milk. Each man of them was known to be able to eat a lamb in one sitting and to 
drink a farg’ of drink in the same sitting. He, peace be on Him and His Family, 
intended by preparing little food and drink for their gathering, to reveal a clear 
sign to them through satisfying them and quenching their thirst with what would 
not normally satisfy and quench the thirst of one of them. He ordered the food 
and drink to be offered to them. From that little amount the whole group ate (and 
drank) until they were full and what they had eaten and drunk was not clear. He 
dazzled them by that and showed them the clear sign of his prophetic mission 
and the evidence for his truthfulness, through the proof of Allah, the Exalted, 
with regard to it. After they had eaten and drunk their fill, he said to them: “Bani 
‘Abd al-Muttalib, Allah has sent me to all creation and He has especially sent 
me to you. He has said: Warn your clan (who are your) kin (XXVI 214). I call 
you to make two statements light to the tongue but heavy in the scales (of Allah). 
By them you will be master of Arab and foreigner, by them nations shall submit 
to you, by them you will enter heaven and by them you will escape from hell. 
They are the (two fold) testimony that there is no God but Allah and that I am 
the Apostle of Allah. Whoever answers me in this matter, helps me in it and in 
carrying it out, will be my brother, my trustee, my helper, my inheritor and my 
successor after me.” 


None of them answered. 


The Commander of the Faithful reported: I stood up before him amid them. At 
that time I was the youngest of them, still with very thin legs and with dirt still in 
the corners of my eyes. I said: “Apostle of Allah, I will help you.” 

“Sit down,” he told me. Then he repeated his words to the people again. They 
were silent and I arose and said the same as I had said the first time. Again he 
told me to sit down and he repeated his words to the people a third time. None of 
them spoke a word. I arose and said: 

“T will help you, Apostle of Allah, in this matter.” 

“Sit down,” he said and then he went on, “You are my brother, my trustee, my 
helper, my inheritor, and my successor after me.” 


3 A sa‘a and farg are measures of cubic capacity. 


30 


The people got up and they were saying to Abi Talib: “Abt Talib, you should 
be congratulated today that you have entered the religion of your nephew and he 
has made your son a commander over you.” 


This outstanding quality is exclusive to the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him. None of the first emigrants or the Ansar share in it, nor does anyone 
else of the people of Islam. No one else has the equal of it in merit, nor even 
an approximate in (the) circumstance (of it). What is shown by the report of 
it is that through him, peace be on him, the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, was able to communicate his message, to make public his mission 
and declare the truth of Islam. If it had not been for him, the religion would not 
have been established, the law of Islam (shari‘a) would not have been set down 
and the mission would not have been made public. He, peace be on him, is the 
support of Islam, the helper of the one who undertook its mission on behalf of 
Allah, the Mighty and High. Through his guaranteeing support to the Prophet of 
guidance, peace be on Him and His Family, he brought about for (the Prophet) 
what he wanted with regard to the prophetic mission. In that there is such merit 
that not even the weight of mountains could outweigh it, nor do all other virtues 
go beyond it in position and rank. 


2. THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE PROPHET’S EMIGRATION FROM MECCA 


Another example of his qualities occurs when the Prophet, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, ordered the emigration after the council of Quraysh had decided 
to kill him and he, peace be on him, would not have been able to defeat their 
plans by leaving Mecca. For He, peace be on him, wanted to keep his departure 
secret and keep the reports about him hidden from them so that he could carry 
out his departure in safety from them. He told his news to the Commander of 
the Faithful and made him keep it secret. He gave him the responsibility of 
protecting him by spending the night on his (i.e. the Prophet’s) bed so that they 
would not know that it was ‘All who was sleeping on the bed and they would 
think that the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was sleeping 
there as he had normally done on previous nights.* The Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him dedicated his life to Allah, the Exalted, devoted it to 
Allah, the Exalted, in obedience and exchanged it for His Prophet, the blessings 
and peace of Allah be on Him and His Family, in order that he might save him 
from the plots of his enemies and thus make sure of his safety and survival 
and also arrange properly his purpose in summoning (the people) to the faith, 
establishing the religion and making public Allah’s law (shari‘a). He, peace be 
on him, spent the night on the bed of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 


4 cf. al-Tabari, I, 1232-3, citing Ibn Ishaq; Ibn Hisham, Szra (Gottingen, 1858-60), 325-6. 


31 


Him and His Family, hidden by his waist-cover (izar). The people who had 
plotted to kill the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, came to him 
and surrounded him. They were carrying weapons. They waited until the dawn 
rose so that they could kill him openly and thus his blood would be shed in such 
a way that Bani Hashim would see that his murderers were from all the clans (of 
Quraysh). Then it would not be possible for them to take vengeance (on them) 
for him because everyone had shared in taking his blood and every tribe would 
be spared from fighting his group and being separate from his family. 


That (i.e. ‘Alt’s action) was the reason for the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, being saved, his blood being kept safe and his survival until he died 
at (the time of) his Lord’s command. If it had not been for the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, and his action, it would not have been possible 
for the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, to propagate 
and carry out (his mission), nor would he have remained alive and continued to 
survive. Thus through him he overcame the envy (of the people) and his 
enemies. In the morning when the people were intending to rush upon him, he, 
peace be on him, rushed towards them. They scattered from him when they 
recognized him and departed. Their plot against the Prophet, peace be on Him 
and His Family, had gone wrong. The preparations they had made to kill him 
had been destroyed. Their plans had been betrayed and their hopes brought 
to nought. In this way was the faith properly set up, Satan humiliated and the 
people of unbelief and enmity betrayed. None of the people of Islam share this 
achievement with the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, nor is any 
equal to it in any circumstance known, nor is there anything approaching it in 
merit according to any correct consideration. Concerning the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, and the night he spent on the (Prophet’s) bed, Allah, 
glory be to Him, revealed: Whoever among the people sells his life out of a desire 
to please Allah, Allah is kind to (such) servants (II 207). 


3. THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL FULFILS THE PROPHET’S OBLIGATIONS IN 
MEccA 


(Another example) of that is that the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, was the one trusted by the Quraysh with the things which they wished 
to deposit. When the situation occurred which required his sudden flight from 
Mecca, he could not find anyone among his people and his family to entrust 
(the things) which he had been entrusted with except the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him. He appointed him (i.e. the Commander of the 
Faithful) as his deputy to return the things deposited with him to their owners 


32 


and to pay the debts which he owed.° Then he gathered his daughters, the 
womenfolk of his family and his wives and their emigration was entrusted to him 
for he did not consider that anyone could take his (i.e. the Commander of the 
Faithful’s) place among all the people. Thus he set his trust on his faithfulness, 
depended upon his courage and bravery, and in the defence of his family and his 
close associates he relied upon his fearlessness and his ability. He rested upon 
his reliability to look after his family and his womenfolk. He recognized in his 
piety and protection from error that by which the soul could feel sure of his 
reliability in those matters. 


‘Alt, peace be on him, carried out (these tasks) very well: he returned every 
deposit to its owner; he paid every debt to the person to whom it was owed; he 
looked after the daughters and womenfolk of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family; and he emigrated with them, he himself going on foot to protect 
them from the enemies and guard them against adversaries; he took them gently 
on the journey until he brought them to him at Medina, (having provided them) 
with complete protection and guarding, good companionship and excellent 
organization. The Prophet gave him accommodation in his house when 
he arrived in Medina® and allowed him to stay with him and mix with his 
womenfolk and children. He did not exclude him from anything which was 
special to himself, nor did he withhold from him the inner meaning and the 
secrets of his affair. This is a quality which is uniquely held by (the Commander 
of the Faithful) peace be on him, from among all his house and Companions. 
None of his followers or supporters shared in it and there occurred in no other 
creature any merit like it, which equalled it in appearance and came near to it in 
its testing quality. It was in addition to his outstanding achievements which we 
have mentioned and their overwhelming merit and their nobility in the hearts of 
those who think. 


4. THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL PUTS RIGHT CRIMES COMMITTED BY KHALID 
B. AL-WALID’ 


(Another example) of that is that Allah, the Exalted specified him for the task 
of putting right what had been done wrong by those who opposed the orders of 
His Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and of reforming what had 
been corrupted so that through him the causes of righteousness were established. 
It (i.e. righteousness) was brought about by his hand, by the happiness of his 


5 cf. al-Tabart, I, 1244, citing Ibn Ishaq; Ibn Hisham, Sira, 334-5. 

6 cf.ibid. 

7 The full accounts of Khalid’s mission and ‘Alt’s rectification of it are in al-Tabari, I, 1649, citing 
Ibn Ishaq; Ibn Hisham, Sra. 833-40, al-Waqidi, al-Maghizi, (Oxford, 1966), II, 875-84. 


33 


endeavour, his good organization, and the necessary success (he brought) to the 
affairs of the Muslims. Through him, the pillars of religion were held firm. 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, sent Khalid b. Walid to the 
Banu Jadhima to summon them to Islam and he did not send him to make war 
(on them). He disobeyed his order, renounced his treaty, rebelled against his 
religion and killed people who had embraced Islam. He betrayed their protected 
status when they were people who had accepted the faith. In that he had been 
acting according to the wild ways of the Jahiliyya and the methods of people of 
unbelief and enmity. 


The result of his evil action (would have affected) Islam and through it those 
whom its Prophet, peace be on Him and His Family, had called to the faith, 
would have broken away and it is likely that the system of organization in 
religion would have been brought to nothing as aresult of his action. Therefore the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, sought to repair the 
wrong that had been done and to reform what had been corrupted. He gave the 
blood-wit according to the law from Allah for that to the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, and sent him to conciliate the people, to draw out their 
hatred and to show gentleness to them in making firm their faith. He told him to 
pay the blood-wit for the dead and in that way satisfy the next of kin responsible 
for keeping their blood alive (by vengeance). 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, achieved complete 
satisfaction in that, for he gave more than was necessary by making a personal 
contribution to them from money which he had. He said to them: “I have paid 
the blood-wit for your dead and in addition to that I have given you money which 
you can hand down to your successors so that Allah may be pleased with His 
Apostle and you may be pleased with his kindness to you.” The Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, made a public renunciation in Medina of 
Khalid’s action against them, which he, then, had communicated to them. By 
the Apostle of Allah’s, may Allah bless Him and His Family, renunciation of 
Khalid’s crime, and by the conciliation of the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, the people agreed (to be reconciled) despite what had been done to 
them. In that way righteousness was achieved and those who carried out corrupt 
acts were foiled. No one was entrusted with that task except the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, nor did anyone else from the community (jamd ‘a) 
except him undertake such actions, nor was the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, satisfied to entrust anyone else with such a task. 
This is an achievement which is greater in merit than any claimed by men other 
than the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. No one else among them 


34 


shared in it, nor was an action equal to it carried out by anyone else. 
5. KEEPING THE CONQUEST OF MECCA SECRET® 


Another example of that is that when the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, wanted to conquer Mecca, he asked Allah, may His name be exalted, to 
keep the reports of it hidden from Quraysh so that he could enter it unexpectedly. 
He, peace be on him, had based the plan for his going there on the secrecy of 
that. However, Hatib b. Abi Balta‘a wrote to the Meccans to inform them of the 
decision of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, to 
conquer it. He gave the letter to a black woman who had come to Medina to seek 
intercession there for the people and to ask for them to be forgiven. He instructed 
her to take it to some Meccans whose names he gave her and he ordered her 
not to take the (main) road. Revelation about that came down on the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He summoned the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, and told him: “One of my companions has written 
to the Meccans to inform them about us. I had asked Allah, the Mighty and High, 
to keep the reports about us hidden from them. The letter is with a black woman 
who has not taken the (main) road. Take your sword, follow her and take the 
letter from her. Let her go and bring it to me.” 


Then he summoned al-Zubayr b. al-‘Awwam and told him: “Go with ‘Alt b. Abt 
Talib on this mission.” 


The two departed and did not take the (main) road. They caught up with the 
woman. Al-Zubayr got to her first and he asked her about the letter which was 
with her. She denied it and swore that she had nothing with her and wept. 


“T can’t see a letter with her, Abi al-Hasan,” said al-Zubayr. “Let us go to the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and tell him that her 
jourmey is innocent.” 

“The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, told me that she 
had a letter,” replied the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, “and he 
ordered me to take it from her. You say that she has no letter.” 


Then he drew his sword and advanced towards her and said to her: “By Allah, if 

you don’t produce the letter, I will compel you to show it. Then I'll cut off your 

head.” 

“Since there is no escape from doing that,” she answered, “turn your face away 

8 cf. al-Tabari, 1626-7, citing Ibn Ishaq; Ibn Hisham, Sra. 810-11, al-Waqidt, al-Maghizi, Il, 
797-9. In the first two accounts it is ‘Alt who makes the women give up the letter. In al-Waqidi’s 
account both men are equally responsible for making her give it up. 


35 


from me, Ibn Abi Talib.” 


He, peace be on him, turned his face away from her. She took off her veil and 
took the letter from her hair. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him, caught hold of it and took it to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. He ordered that the call should be given: “The prayer is general” (al- 
salat jami‘a) (i.e. everybody should attend). The call was made among the 
people and they gathered at the mosque until it was crowded with them. Then the 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, went up on the pulpit and he took 
the letter in his hand. He said: “People, I had asked Allah, the Mighty and High, 
to keep reports about us hidden from Quraysh. However, one of you wrote to the 
Meccans to inform them about us. Let the writer of the letter stand up. If he does 
not, then revelation will make him known.” 


No one stood up. The Prophet repeated his words a second time. He said: “Let 
the writer of the letter stand up. If he does not, then revelation will make him 
known:” 


(At this) Hatib b. Abi Balta‘a stood up. He was shaking like a palm-bough on the 
day of a violent storm. He said: “Apostle of Allah, I am the writer of the letter. I 
have committed no (other) act of hypocrisy after becoming a Muslim, nor have I 
had any (other) doubt after my firm conviction (in Islam).” 

“What made you write this letter?” the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, asked him. 

“Apostle of Allah, I have a family in Mecca,” he said, “and I have no other 
tribal connections (‘ashira) there. I was afraid that they would be overcome on 
account of us. So this letter of mine was (an attempt) to offer a helping hand to 
my family, (to give) support to them. I did not do it because of any doubt on my 
part in the religion.” 


“Apostle of Allah,” said ‘Umar b. al-Khattab, “command me to kill him. He has 
committed an act of hypocrisy.” 

“He is one of the men (who fought) at Badr,” said the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family. “Perhaps Allah will look down on them and 
forgive them. Take him out of the mosque.” 


[He reported: ] 

Then people began to push him in the back until they had taken him out, while 
he had been turning towards the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
begging him for mercy. The Apostle of Allah ordered him to be brought back and 
he said to him: “I have forgiven you and your crime, so seek the forgiveness of 


36 


your Lord and never do such a crime as you committed again.” 


The achievement belongs with his other achievements, peace be on him, which 
have been mentioned earlier. As a result of it, it was possible for the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, to organise the entry into Mecca, 
to protect against trouble from the people and to avoid their knowledge of his 
intention towards them until he had come upon them unawares. In the matter 
of extracting the letter from the woman, he could only trust the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him. In that he did not regard anyone else as a faithful 
adviser except him, nor did he rely on anyone else. Through him, peace be on 
him, the task was carried out and his purpose attained; his organization was 
properly established as was the advantage of the Muslims in the matter, and the 
religion was able to be spread. No merit can be attributed to al-Zubayr in terms of 
him being sent with the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, because he 
did not fulfil his task and he was useless in carrying it out. The Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, only sent him because he was included 
in the number of Bani Hashim through his mother, Safiyya, daughter of ‘Abd 
al-Muttalib, and he wanted to entrust the task, in the execution of which there 
was need for secrecy, to those specially belonging to his family. Al-Zubayr had 
courage and boldness in addition to the relationship which there was between 
him and the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. He (the Prophet) 
knew that he (al-Zubayr) would help him (the Commander of the Faithful) in his 
mission since they both had (an interest) in the fulfilment of the task and since it 
referred to them both it so far as what was general to Banu Hashim was specific 
to them both. Al-Zubayr was a follower of the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him. There occurred from him during his mission (actions) which did not 
conform to correct reasoning and the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him, prevented him (from following these actions). 


In what we have explained in this story, there is clear evidence for the special 
achievement and virtue of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
which is shared by no one else. No one else approached him with any merit 
without him having more than it. Allah be He Who is praised. 


6. THE CARRYING OF THE STANDARD AT THE CONQUEST OF MECCA. 


(Yet another example) is the fact that the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, gave the standard to Sa‘d b. ‘Ubada on the day of the conquest of Mecca 
and ordered him to carry it in front of him into Mecca. Sa‘d took it and began 


9 This account is based on al-Tabari, I, 1632, citing Ibn Ishaq, Ibn Hisham, Siva, 816; for a fuller 
version cf. al-Waqidi, al-Maghazi, II, 821-2. 


37 


to declare: “Today is the day of slaughter, the day of capturing (any) daughter.” 


“Haven’t you heard what Sa‘d b. ‘Ubada is saying?” some of the people asked 
the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. “We are afraid that today will 
(simply mean) to him, attacking Quraysh.” 


“All, go to Sa‘d,” he, peace be on him, told the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, “and take the standard from him. You be the one to enter with 
it.” 


Thus the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, set right through 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, what was about to go astray 
in the organization through Sa‘d rushing forward and attacking the Meccans. He 
knew that the Ansar would not be pleased if any (other) person had taken the 
standard from their leader Sa‘d and taken that position from him except one who 
was similar in circumstance to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
through the exaltedness of his rank, his high position, and the duty of obeying 
him, and someone who would not make Sa‘d delay in giving up that command 
to him. If there had been with the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
someone suitable for that other than the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, he would have set the affair right through him, or he would have 
mentioned there his suitability for what the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, undertook. Since decisions are only required by virtue of the actions 
which actually happened and what the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, did to the Commander of the Faithful was to magnify and exalt him, to 
consider him worthy of what he did consider him worthy in terms of putting right 
affairs and attaining what would not have been possible through the action of any 
one else as we have mentioned, it is necessary to judge him in this achievement 
as someone set apart from others who were not equal to him, and (someone) 
preferred through the honour of it over all others. 


7. THE CONVERSION OF YEMEN!” 


(Another example) of that which is agreed upon by all the historians 
(biographers ahi al-sira) is that the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, sent, Khalid b. Walid to the people of Yemen to call them to Islam. With 
him, he sent a group of Muslims, among whom was al-Bara’ b. ‘Azib, may Allah 
have mercy on him. Khalid stayed with the people for six months calling them 
(to Islam) but no one of them responded. That depressed the Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family. He summoned the Commander of the 


10 This report is the same as reported by al-Tabari, 1, 1731-2. 


38 


Faithful, peace be on him, and ordered him to send back Khalid and those who 
were with him. However, he told him that if anyone of those who had been with 
Khalid wanted to stay, he should let him. 


[al-Bara’ reported: | 

I was one of those who followed him. When we came to the first people among 
the Yemenis and the news reached the people (generally), they gathered before 
him. ‘Ali b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, prayed the dawn prayer with us, then he 
advanced in front of us. He praised and glorified Allah. Then he read the letter 
of the Apostle of Allah. The whole of Hamdan became Muslim in one day. The 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, wrote about that to the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. When he read his letter, he was 
pleased and delighted. He prostrated in thanks to Allah, the Exalted. He raised 
his head and sat. He said: “Greetings to Hamdan. After the submission to Islam 
of Hamdan, (the rest of) the people of Yemen will follow (them) into Islam.” 


This is another achievement of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
which no other of the Companions had done anything like or similar to. For (the 
Prophet), when he wanted to stop Khalid from carrying on with the mission 
on which he had sent him and he was afraid that corruption would be caused 
by him, could not find anyone to succeed him except the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him. So he asked him (i.e. “Alj) and the latter undertook it 
in the best possible manner. And as was Allah’s custom with him, he performed 
it with success since it conformed to the preference of the Prophet, may Allah 
bless him and grant him peace. He was a man of righteousness, gentleness, good 
administrative ability and sincere intentions in obedience to Allah, the Mighty 
and High, (a man) with the ability to guide those of the people who would be 
guided, and to respond to those of them who responded to (the call of) Islam. 
He was (an important element) in the building of the religion, the strength of 
the faith in (explaining) the message of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, according to the meaning he (the Prophet) had traced for him. 
(Indeed he was capable) of organising matters in a way which delighted him 
(i.e. the Prophet). The promise of heaven was revealed about him (as was) his 
delight in his perfection among all the people of Islam. It has been confirmed that 
obedience is of great importance by virtue of the great importance of the benefit 
gained by it, just as sin is of great consequence by virtue of the great harm which 
comes through it. Thus prophets, peace be on them, are the creatures with the 
greatest rewards by virtue of the greatness of their benefit through their call to 
the rest of the beneficial things (which can be gained) by acts (performed) by the 
rest of the people. 


39 


8. TAKING UP THE STANDARD AT KHAYBAR"! 


Similar to that was the putting to flight of those who were put to flight at Khaybar. 
The exalted rank of carrying the standard is considered highly. By the (standard- 
bearer’s) being put to flight, there occurred such disarray as could not be hidden 
from those with discernment. Then the standard was given to another man after 
that. However, he was put to flight in the same way as the first man had been 
before. In that there was fear for Islam and its position after two men (carrying 
its standard) had been put to flight. That troubled the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, and made public the disobedience to him and the 
bad attitude towards him. So he said in a (public) announcement: “Tomorrow, I 
will give the standard to one whom Allah and His Apostle love. Allah and His 
Apostle love him as one who returns to the battle without fleeing: he will not 
come back until Allah has brought victory at his hands.” 


Then he gave (the standard) to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
and victory came at his hands. His words, peace be on him, guided and prevented 
those who wanted to flee from leaving the rank which had been assigned to the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. Thus by the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, coming out to attack, giving support to the battle and 
restoring the situation at Khaybar, which had been beyond everyone else, there 
is evidence of his unequalled merit which no one else shared. Concerning that 
al-Hassan b. Thabit al-Ansari said: 

‘All was ashen-eyed needing medicine, even then he did not find (the help 

of anyone) to nurse him. 


The Apostle of Allah healed him with saliva. He blessed the healer (raqi) 
and He blessed the healed. 


He said: I will give the standard today to a dauntless man, brave, one who 
loves Allah as a follower. 


He loves my Allah and Allah loves him. Through him Allah will overcome 
the fortress returning it to Allah. 


He distinguished ‘Ali by that apart from all other creatures and he named 
him his helper (wazir) and brother. 


11 cf. al-Tabari, I, 1579, Ibn Hisham, Sira, 761-2. The two defeated men are identified as Abi Bakr 
and ‘Umar. The verses are not reported by either authority. 


40 


9. Delivery of the Verses of Renunciation in Mecca” 


Similar to that is the story of (the document of renunciation (bard ‘a)) which the 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, gave to Abi Bakr so that he could 
abrogate the alliance with the polytheists through it. When he had travelled far 
away, Gabriel, peace be on him, descended to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family. He told him: “Allah recites His greeting to you and says to you 
that the act of renunciation should not be performed for you except by yourself 
or a man (related) to you.” 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, summoned ‘AI, 
peace be on him, and told him: “Ride my camel, al-‘Adba’, and go after Abi 
Bakr. Take (the document of) renunciation from him and go with it to Mecca. 
You abrogate the alliance with the polytheists through it. Give Abt Bakr the 
choice of continuing to ride with you or of returning to me.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, rode al-‘Adba’, the camel of 
the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family and caught up with 
Abi Bakr. The latter was disturbed at being caught up with by him. 

“Why have you come, Abt al-Hasan?” he asked as he greeted him. “Are you 
going to travel with me? Or is it for some other reason?” 

“The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, ordered me to 
come after you,” the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, said, “to take 
the verses of renunciation (bard ‘a) from you and to abrogate the treaty with the 
polytheists through them. He ordered me to let you choose between going with 
me or returning to him.” 

“Indeed, I will return to him,” he said. 


He went back to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. When he 
came to him, he said: “Apostle of Allah, you regarded me as worthy to undertake 
a mission on account of which men craned their necks towards me. When I 
had set out on it, you dismissed me from it. What has come down in revealed 
message (Qur’an) concerning me?” 


“The trusty one, Gabriel, peace be on him, came down to me from Allah, 
the Mighty and Exalted,” the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
answered, “with (the command) that: ‘The act of renunciation should not be 
performed for you except by yourself or a man (related) to you.’‘ All is related to 


12 This account follows most closely the account given in al-Tabari, 1720-1, however it makes 


Gabriel responsible for the change. The name of the Prophet’s camel is given by Ibn Hisham, 
Sira, 922. 


41 


me and it should only be performed for me by “Alt.” 


(This account occurs) in a famous tradition. The abrogation of a treaty was 
limited to the one who made it or to one who could take his place in terms of the 
necessary obedience, dignified regard, high rank, noble position, and one who 
was above suspicion in his actions and whose words could not be (legitimately) 
opposed - one who was the same as the maker of the treaty and whose affair was 
his affair. Since it was judged by what he had done in the past it was established 
and was secure from opposition and (since) the strength of Islam, the completion 
(of the laws) of religion, the well-being of the Muslims, the conquest of Mecca, 
and the good organization of well-being was involved in the abrogation of the 
treaty, Allah, the Exalted, preferred that that should be entrusted to one who was 
illustrious in name, exalted in fame. This indicates the outstanding merit of such 
a man; it gives evidence of his high rank and distinguishes him from others. 
Those (things) belonged to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 
None of the other people had merit which came near to the merit which we have 
described nor did any of them share with him (any) of what we have explained. 


Examples of what we have mentioned are so numerous that our work in 
presenting them would lengthen this book, and the speeches would encompass 
it. It is sufficient for those of intelligence to include what we have set out in the 
aims which we have outlined. 


28 2K OK KR 


42 


CHAPTER ITI 


THE MILITARY EXPLOITS OF THE 
COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


As for armed struggle (jihad) by which the rules of Islam were established 
and by the establishment of which the religious stipulations and laws of the 
community (milla) were settled, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him, was so outstanding that his fame is spread among men and reports about 
him are abundant both among his special followers and the general populace. 
The learned do not differ on that nor do the specialists in law dispute its truth. 
The only doubt (which could be raised) about that would be (as a result of) the 
deliberate neglect of one who did not consider the historical reports. None of 
those who reflect on the account can reject it except an obstinate liar who has no 
shame. 


THE BATTLE OF BADR 


An example of that is what he did at the Battle of Badr, which is mentioned in the 
Qur’an. It was the first battle in which there was a test (of the Muslims’) faith. 
Fear filled the hearts of a number of Muslims and they wanted to hold back from 
it out of that fear and dislike, as is shown absolutely in the Explanation (tibyan 
i.e. Qur 4n) where He, may His name be exalted, speaks of them in what He 
reports of them with full explanation and clarity: Similarly your Lord brought 
you out of your house according to the truth while a group of believers were 
unwilling to (follow you) and were disputing with you about the right course 
after it had been explained as though they were being driven to death while 
they were watching. (VUI 5-6). Concerning the verses connecting that to Allah’s 
words: Do not be like those who came out of their houses in insolence and as 
hypocritical people to stop (them) from the path of Allah. And Allah encompasses 
what they do (VIII 47) to the end of the sara. 


Most accounts of their circumstances in that follow each other; even though the 
expressions may be different yet their import agrees. The brief outline of the 
account of this attack is that the polytheists came to Badr intent on battle and 
determined to gain victory in it because of their vast equipment, their number, 
supplies and men. At that time the Muslims were a group, few in number. 
Some of them came (to the battle) unwillingly and showed their reluctance and 
compulsion. Quraysh challenged them to single combat and called on them to 


43 


draw up in battle line and to take the field. They suggested that equals (in rank) 
among them should meet (in battle). The Ansar delayed coming forward. Indeed, 
the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, stopped them from doing 
that.! 


“The people have asked for equals to them,” he told them. Then he ordered ‘Ali 
to go out against them. He summoned Hamza b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib and ‘Ubayda 
b. al-Harith, the pleasure of Allah be with them, to go forward with him. 


When they had drawn up before them, the people did not accept them at first 
because they were wearing helmets. 

“Who are you?” they asked. 

They told them their ancestry. 

“Noble equals,” they replied. Then the battle began between them. 


Al-Walid came out against the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 
Soon he (i.e. the Commander of the Faithful) killed him. ‘Utba came out against 
Hamza, may Allah be pleased with him, and Hamza killed him. Shayba came out 
against ‘Ubayda, may Allah have mercy on him. Blows were exchanged between 
them. One of them cut the thigh of ‘Ubayda. The Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, rescued him by striking Shayba with a blow which surprised 
him and killing him. Hamza, may Allah be pleased with him, participated in that. 


The killing of those three was the first (sign) of weakening within (the ranks 
of) the polytheists. Weakness came upon them and terror by which they were 
overcome with fear of the Muslims. In that way indications of a Muslim 
victory were (already) apparent. Then the Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him, came forward (to fight) al-‘As b. Sa‘id b. al-‘As after all (the Muslims) 
except him had drawn away from him. Soon he had slain him. Hanzala b. Abi 
Sufyan came against him and he killed him. Tu‘ayma b. ‘Adi came against him 
and he killed him. After him, he killed Nawfal b. Khuwaylid - he was one of 
the devils (shayatin) of Quraysh. He, peace be on him, continued to slay one 
of them after another until he had managed (to kill) half of those of them who 
were killed. There were seventy men (killed) in all, of whom all the Muslims 
who were present at al-Badr together with three thousand angels who had been 
sent undertook the killing of half of them while the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, undertook the killing of the other half alone with Allah’s help 
for him, His support, success and victory. Thus victory was brought about at his 
hands. The matter was finally sealed by the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, taking a handful of pebbles and throwing it into their faces while he 


1 cf. al-Tabari, I, 1317-8. Ibn Hisham, Sira, 443. 


44 


said, “May their faces be deformed in ugliness (through the evil eye).” None of 
them remained without turning their backs in flight. Allah had been sufficient in 
battle for the believers through the Commander of the Faithful and his partners 
in support of religion, who were from the special group of family of the Apostle, 
peace be on Him and His Family, and those who supported him among the noble 
angels. As Allah the Most High said: Allah was sufficient in the battle for the 
believers. Allah was Strong and Mighty. (XXXII 25) 


The narrators, both non-Shi‘a (‘Gmma) and Shi‘a (Ahdssa), confirmed the names 
of those of the polytheists whom the Commander of the Faithful killed at Badr; 
(this has been established) with agreement and accord about what they have 
reported. Among those whom they named were: 

1. Al-Walid b. ‘Utba: he, as we have mentioned before, was brave, daring, 
brazen and murderous; a man whom men were terrified of; 

2. Al-‘As b. Sa‘id: he was a very awesome man whom (even) heroes feared 
and he was the man from whom ‘Umar b. al-Khattab fled - the story of 
him concerning what we have just mentioned is well known and we will 
present it later, Allah willing; 

3. Tu‘ayma b. ‘Adi b. Nawfal: he was one of the leaders of the misguided 
people; 

4. Nawfal b. Khuwaylid: he was one of the fiercest in opposition to the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and Quraysh used 
to give him precedence and great position and obey him. He was the one 
who bound Abi Bakr and Talha together in Mecca before the emigration 
(hijra) and tied them with a rope and tortured them night and day so 
that he might interrogate them about their involvement (amr). When the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, knew of his 
presence at Badr, he beseeched Allah that his affair would be sufficient (to 
destroy) him. He said: “O Allah, be sufficient on my behalf (to destroy) 
Nawfal b. Khuwaylid.” Thus, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him, killed him. 

5. Zam‘a b. al-Aswad; 

6. ‘Adil b. al-Aswad; 

7. Al-Harith b. Zam‘a; 

8. Al-Nadr b. al-Harith b. ‘Abd al-Dar; 

9. ‘Umayr b. ‘Uthman b. Ka‘b b. Taym, the paternal uncle of Talha b. ‘Ubayd 
Allah; 

10. ‘Uthman 

11. and Malik, the two sons of ‘Ubayd Allah and brothers of Talha b. ‘Ubayd 
Allah; 

12. Mas‘td b. Abi Umayya b. al-Mughira; 


45 


13. Qays b. al-Fakih b. al-Mughira; 

14. Hudhayfa b. Abi Hudhayfa b. al-Mughtra; 
15. Abt Qays b. al-Walid b. al-Mughtra; 
16. Hanzala b. Abi Sufyan; 

17. ‘Amr b. Makhziim; 

18. Abit al-Mundhir b. Abi Rifa‘a; 

19. Munabbih b. al-Hajjaj al-Sahmi; 

20. Al-‘As b. Munabbih; 

21. ‘Alqama b. Kalda; 

22. Abii al-‘As b. Qays b. ‘Adi; 

23. Mu‘awiya b. al-Mughira b. Abi al-‘As; 
24. Lawdhan b. Rabi‘a; 

25. ‘Abd Allah b. al-Mundhir b. Abi Rifa‘a; 
26. Mas‘ud b. Umayya b. al-Mughira; 

27. Hajib b. Sa’ib b. ‘Uwaymir; 

28. Aws b. al-Mughira b. Lawdhan; 

29. Zayd b. Mullis; 

30. ‘Asim b. Abi ‘Awf;: 

31. Sa‘id b. Wahb, ally of the Bani ‘Amir; 
32. Mu‘awiya b. ‘Abd al-Qays; 

33. ‘Abd Allah b. Jamil b. Zuhayr b. al-Harith b. al-Asad; 
34. Al- Sa’ib b. Malik; 

35. Abi al-Hakam b. al-Akhnas; 

36. Hisham b. Abt Umayya b. al-Mughira. 


That is thirty-six men,” excluding those with regard to whose (death) there is 
some dispute or in which the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
participated with others. They are more than half those killed at Badr as we have 
mentioned. 


(Here is) a brief survey of the reports which have come down in explanation of 
what we have put forward. 


[The report which Shu’ba related on the authority of Abi Ishaq, on the authority 
of al-Harith b. Mudarrib, who said:]? 

I heard ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, say: 

We came to Badr without there being a horseman among us except al-Miqdad 


2 Of these thirty-six names more detailed accounts follow concerning Al-Walid b. ‘Utba, Al-‘As 
b. Sa‘id, Tu‘ayma b. ‘Adt and Nawfal b. Khuwaylid. Many of them are reported in the list given 
by al-Waqidt, al-Maghazi, I, 148-52, which makes the number killed by ‘Ali 22. 

3 Same report and isndd in al-Tabart, 1291. 


46 


b. al-Aswad. We spent the night before Badr and there was not a man among 
us who did not sleep except the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. He was standing upright at the trunk of a tree where he performed the 
ritual prayer and called to Allah until morning. 


[‘Ali b.Hashim reported on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Ubayd Allah b. Abt 
Rafi‘, on the authority of his father, on the authority of his grandfather, Abi 
Rafi‘, the retainer of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
who said: ]* 

When the people awoke on the morning of the day of the battle of Badr, Quraysh 
drew up their ranks. At their front was ‘Utba b. Rabi‘a and his brother, Shayba, 
and his son, al-Walid. ‘Utba called out to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, saying: “Muhammad, send out against us our equal from 
Quraysh.” 


Three young men of the Ansar went forward against them. ‘Utba said to them: 
“Who are you?” They gave their lineage to him. 

“There is no need for us to take part in single combat with you,” he replied. “We 
only seek (to fight) our kinsmen.” 

“Withdraw to your positions,” the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, ordered the Ansar. Then he said: “Arise, ‘Alt. Arise, Hamza. Arise, 
‘Ubayda. Fight for your truth with which Allah sent your Prophet, since they 
have brought their falsehood to extinguish the light of Allah.” 


They arose and arrayed themselves before the people. They were wearing 
helmets so that they were not recognized. 

‘Utba said to them, “Speak. If you are our equals then we will fight you.” 

“T am Hamza b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib, the lion of Allah and the lion of His Apostle, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family,” declared Hamza 

“A noble equal,” said ‘Utba. 

“Tam ‘Ali b. Abi Talib b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib,” declared the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him. 

“T am ‘Ubayda b. al-Harith b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib,” declared ‘Ubayda. 

Then ‘Utba told his son al-Walid: “Arise, al-Walid.” 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, came forward against him. 
At that time they were both the youngest of the assembled company. They 
exchanged blows. Al-Walid’s blow missed the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, and then he warded off the blow of the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, with his left hand and (the blow) cut it off. 


4 cf. al-Tabart, I, 1317-8, Ibn Hisham, Sira, 443, without the verses. 


47 


It is related that he (i.e. the Commander of the Faithful) used to mention Badr 
and the killing of al-Walid. He would say in his conversation: “It was just as if 
I was looking at the flashing of the ring on his left hand. Then I struck him with 
another blow, brought him down and plundered him. I saw he had a robe of 
saffron and I realised that he had recently been married.” 


‘Utba advanced against Hamza, may Allah be pleased with him, and Hamza 
killed him. ‘Ubayda, who was the oldest of the people, marched against Shayba. 
They exchanged blows and the sharp edge of Shayba’s sword struck ‘Ubayda’s 
knee and cut it. However, the Commander of the Faithful and Hamza rescued 
him from Shayba and they killed Shayba and carried ‘Ubayda away. He died at 
al-Safra’. 


Hind, the daughter of ‘Utba, recited concerning the killing of ‘Utba, Shayba and 
al-Walid: 
O my eye, profuse with flowing tears, he never withdrew to a better man 
of Khindif. 
His group and the Bani Hashim and Bani al-Muttalib summoned him at 
morning. 
They made him taste the blades of their swords. They stripped him after 
he had perished. 


[Al-Hasan b. Humayd reported: Abt: Ghassan told us: Abt _Isma‘tl ‘Umayr b. 
Bakkar told us on the authority of Jabir, on the authority of Abt Ja‘ far, peace be 
on them, who said: ] 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, said: “I was amazed at the 
bravery of the people at Badr. I had killed al-Walid. Hamza had killed ‘Utba and 
I shared with him in the killing of Shayba. Then Hanzala b. Abt Sufyan advanced 
towards me. When he was near me, I struck him a blow with my sword and his 
eyes flowed with tears as he cleaved to the ground, dead.” 


[Abt Bakr al-Hudhalt reported on the authority of al-Zuhri, on the authority of 
Salih b. Kaysan, who said:]° 

‘Uthman b. ‘Affan passed Sa‘id b. al-‘As and said: “Come with us to the 
Commander of the Faithful, ‘Umar b. al-Khattab so that we may talk with him.” 
They both went. 


Sa‘id reported: As for ‘Uthman, he could take whatever place he wished, but as 
for me, I had to keep to the side of the people. ‘Umar looked towards me and 
said: “What is (the feeling) towards me which I see in you; as if you felt some 


5 A shorter version of this account is given by al-Waqidi, I, 92. 


48 


(animosity) towards me? Do you think that I killed your father? By Allah, if I 
had wanted to be his killer and if I had killed him, I would not have made any 
excuse for killing an unbeliever. However I passed him on the day of Badr and I 
saw him seeking for battle just as an ox seeks for its mate. His jaws were foaming 
like a lizard. When I saw that, I became terrified of him and turned aside from 
him. He said: ‘Where are you going, Ibn al-Khattab?’ Then ‘Alt directed himself 
towards him and caught up with him. By Allah, I remained in my place until he 
killed him.” 


‘Ali, peace be on him, was present at the assembly (when ‘Umar was telling 
this). He said: “O Allah, let there be forgiveness; polytheism has gone with what 
was in it. Islam has wiped out what existed before. Why do you (say that)? You 
will rouse the people against me.” 

So ‘Umar desisted. 


Sa‘td, (later) commented: “Yet it was the only pleasure for me (in the death of 
my father) that the one who killed him was ‘Alt b. Abt Talib.” 


The people put forward (this story) in another narration. 


[Muhammad b. Ishaq reported on the authority of Yazid b. Riman on the 
authority of Urwa b. al-Zubayr:]° 

At the battle of Badr, ‘Ali, peace be on him, advanced toward Tu‘ayma b. ‘Adi 
b. Nawfal and thrust his spear at him, saying to him: “By Allah, you will never 
oppose us concerning Allah after today.” 


[‘Abd al-Razzaq reported on the authority of Ma‘mar on the authority of al- 
Zuhti, who said:]’ 

When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family knew of the 
presence of Nawfal b. Khuwaylid at Badr, he said: “O Allah, be sufficient (to 
destroy) Nawfal on my behalf.” 


When Quraysh were routed, ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, saw him. He was 
perplexed, not knowing what to do. He directed himself towards him and struck 
at him with his sword. He took hold of his shield and pulled it away from him. 
Then he struck his leg as his armour was covering (the top of his body). He cut it 
and then gave him a final blow and killed him. When he returned to the Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, he heard him say: “Who has knowledge 
of Nawfal?” 


6 This extract is not reported by al-Tabari or Ibn Hisham. 
7 cf. al-Waqidi, I, 91-2. 


49 


“T have killed him, O Apostle of Allah,” he, peace be on him, replied. 
The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “Allah is greater! Praise 
be to Allah who has answered my prayer concerning him.” 


(The poet) Usayd b. Abi Iyyas said about the exploits of the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, at Badr, in order to urge on the polytheists of Quraysh 
against him: 
At every meeting there is a purpose which confounds you, a strong 
youngster who overcomes experienced full-grown horses. 


Your abundance comes from God! Do you not deny (it)? Perhaps the 
noble free man does deny and feels shame. 


This is the son of Fatima who has destroyed you in slaughter and death 
with a single blow not with (wild) striking. 


They gave him money to avoid his blows - the action of the servile, a 
contract which brings no profit. 


Where were the mature men? Where were all the chiefs (of the people) 
amid (these) misfortunes? Where was the best of the valley (al-abtah)? 


He destroyed them with violent death and blows which he struck as he 
used his sword whose blade did not (cease) striking (down). 


THE BATTLE OF UHUD 


The battle of Uhud came after Badr. During it the standard of the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was carried by the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, as it had been at Badr. On that day he also carried 
the banner (/iwa’): he was noted as the one who carried both the standard and the 
banner. The same (individual) success was (achieved) by him during this battle 
as had been (achieved) by him at Badr. However, during it he was outstanding for 
his noble (suffering) of misfortune, his endurance and his firm footedness when 
the feet of other men were slipping (backwards). His distress for the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was such as no other of the people 
of Islam had. Allah killed through his sword (many of) the leaders of the people 
of polytheism and misguidance. Through him Allah dispelled the tragedy (of 
the battle) from His Prophet, peace be on him. Gabriel, peace be on him, spoke 
to the angels of heaven and earth about his merit in that situation. The Prophet 
of guidance, peace be on him, set him apart by virtue of his characterising him 


50 


with what was hidden from ordinary men. 


[Of that is what Yahya b. ‘Umara reported: al-Hasan b. Misa b. Riyah, retainer 
of the Ansar, told me: Abi al-Bakhtari al-Qurashi:] 

The standard and banner of Quraysh were both in the hands of Qusayy b. Kilab. 
The standard remained in the hand of the sons of ‘Abd al-Muttalib, the one of 
them who was present at war used to carry it until Allah sent His Apostle, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family. The standard and the rest of the things came 
(under the authority of) the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He 
settled it on the Bantu Hashim. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, gave it to ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, at the battle of Waddan; it was the first 
battle at which the standard was carried in Islam, on behalf of the Prophet, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family. It remained with him (i.e. ‘Alt) at the events at 
Badr -- the greatest victory -- and at the battle of Uhud. At that time the banner 
was in the hands of the sons of ‘Abd al-Dar. However, the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, gave it to Mus‘ab b. ‘Umayr. He was martyred 
and the banner fell from his hand. The tribes (men) were looking down at him. 
The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, seized it and thrust 
it to ‘Alt b. Abt Talib, peace be on him. On that day he made him combine the 
standard and the banner and both of them remain to the present day with the 
Banu Hashim. 


[Al-Mufaddal b. ‘Abd Allah reported on the authority of Simak, on the authority 
of ‘Ikrima, on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Abbas, who said:] 

Four things were given to ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, which were not 
given to anyone else: he was the first person, Arab or non-Arab, to pray with 
the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family; he was the one who 
carried his banner in every march; he was the one who remained with him at the 
Battle of Mihras, that is the Battle of Uhud; and he was the one who took (his 
corpse) into his tomb. 


[Zayd b. Wahb al Juhni reported through the following isnad: Ahmad b. ‘Ammar 
told us: al-Himmant told us: Sharik told us on the authority of ‘Uthman b. al- 
Mughira, on the authority of Zayd b. Wahb,® who said: One day we found ‘Abd 
Allah b. Mas‘td in a good mood. We asked him if he would tell us about the 
Battle of Uhud and how it had been. “Yes,” he replied and he carried on the 
account until he came to the mention of the battle itself. He said:] 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, ordered (us): “Go 
out against them with the name of Allah.” 


8 Zayd ibn Wahb’s version was probably taken by al-Mufid from a book written by al-Himmanti. 
cf. Tis, Fihrist, 148, 361. 


51 


We went out and we arrayed ourselves in a long line against them. He positioned 
fifty men of the Ansar over the hill-pass. He put one of their number in charge of 
them and he told them: “Do not leave this position of yours, for if we are going 
to be killed right up to the last of us, we will be attacked through your position.” 


Abia Sufyan Sakhr b. Harb positioned Khalid b. al-Waltd opposite them. The 
banners of Quraysh were in (the possession of) Banti ‘Abd al-Dar and the 
banner of the polytheists was in (the hands of) Talha b. Abi Talha - he was called 
the leader of the phalanx. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, gave the banner of the emigrants (muhd@jrin) to ‘All b. Abt Talib, peace 
be on him. He went forward and stood beneath the banner of the Ansar. Abi 
Sufyan came up to the banner-carriers and declared: “Banner-carriers, perhaps 
you know that the people will only come forward for the sake of their banners. At 
the battle of Badr, you only came forward for the sake of your banners. (Today) if 
you think that you will be too weak (to defend) them, give them to us to defend 
them for you.” 


Talha b. Abi Talha became angry and said: “Are you saying this to us? By Allah, 
I will lead you with them today to the waters of death.” Talha was called the 
leader of the phalanx. 


He advanced and ‘Ali b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, advanced. 

“Who are you?” demanded ‘Alt. 

“T am Talha b. Abt Talha,” he replied. “I am the leader of the phalanx. Who are 
you?” 

“Tam ‘Ali b. Abi Talib b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib,” he answered. 


They drew together and blows were exchanged between them. ‘Alt b. Abt Talib, 
peace be on him, struck him on the front of the head. His eyes flowed with tears 
and he let out a scream, the like of which has never been heard (before or since). 
The banner fell from his hand. His brother called Mus‘ab seized hold of it but 
‘Asim b. Thabit shot an arrow at him and killed him. Then his brother called 
‘Uthman seized hold of it. Again ‘Asim b. Thabit shot an arrow and killed him. 
Their slave called Sawab, who was one of the fiercest of men, took hold of it. 
‘Alt, peace be on him, struck his hand and cut it. He took the banner with his left 
hand and he cut that (too). He took hold of the banner with his chest and both his 
severed arms. ‘AIj, peace be on him, struck him on the crown of his head and he 
fell prostrate. 


The people were put to flight and the Muslims occupied themselves with spoils. 
When the men at the mountain-pass saw the people plundering, they said: “Those 


52 


men will take (all) the spoils while we stay (here).” 


They asked their leader, ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Umar b. Hazm: “We want to take part in 
the plunder like the people are.” 

“The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, has ordered me not 
to leave this position,” he replied. 

“He ordered you to do that without knowing that the matter would come to what 
we now see,” they told him and went off towards the booty leaving him behind. 
He remained in his position. Khalid b. al-Walid attacked and killed him. Then 
(Khalid) came up behind the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, making straight for him. He could see the Prophet, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, amid a small troop of his Companions. He said to those with 
him: “Behold this is the man you want. Your business is with him.” 


They attacked him as one, striking with swords, thrusting with spears, shooting 
arrows and hurling stones. The Companions of the Prophet, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, began to fight to (defend) him until seventy of them were 
killed. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, Abi Dujana and Sahl 
b. Hunayf supported the people in defending the Prophet, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family. The polytheists attacked them. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, had been overcome by faintness from (a wound) 
which he had received. He opened his eyes and saw the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him. 

“ATT ,” he said, “what have the people done?” 

“They have broken their pledge and turned their tracks in flight,” he answered. 
“But these who have shown purposefulness will be sufficient for me (to carry 
out) my purpose.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, attacked them and routed 
them. Then he went back (to the Prophet), who had been attacked from another 
side. He launched himself against them and routed them. Abt Dujana and Sahl b. 
Hunayf stood beside him, each with a sword in his hand, in order to defend him. 
Fourteen of his Companions who had fled came back to him. Among them were 
Talha b. ‘Ubayd Allah and ‘Asim b. Thabit. 


The rest had gone up the hill and people began to cry out throughout Medina: 
“The Prophet has been killed.” As a result of that their spirits abandoned them, 
and defeated and confused they scattered to right and left. 


Hind, the daughter of ‘Utba, had urged a savage man to kill the Apostle of Allah, 
or the Commander of the Faithful or Hamza b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib, peace be on 


53 


them. He had told her: “As for Muhammad, there is no way I can get to him 
because his Companions always surround him. In the case of ‘Alt, when he 
fights, he is more wary than a wolf. However, I am quite hopeful with regard 
to Hamza, for when he becomes angry, he does not see what is in front of him.” 


At that time, Hamza could be recognized by an ostrich feather (he wore) on his 
breast. The savage man lay in wait for him. He reported: “My lance quivered (in 
my hand) until I was in a good position to hurl it at him. Then it struck him just 
above the thigh and pierced it. I left him until when he was cold (with death), 
I went back to him and took my spear from him. Meanwhile the Muslims had 
been distracted by their flight from (what had happened between) him and me.” 


Hind had come forward and ordered Hamza’s stomach to be split open, his liver 
to be cut out and his body to be mutilated. They cut off his nose and ears. The 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was also too occupied to 


be aware of what had happened to him. 
28 2K OK KR 


[The narrator of the account - Zayd b. Wahb - reported:] I asked Ibn Mas‘ud: 
“Did the people flee from the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, so that only ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, Abii Dujana and Sahl b. 
Hunayf remained with him?” 

“Talha b. ‘Ubayd Allah joined them,” he answered. 

“Where were Abi Bakr and ‘Umar?” I asked. 

“They were among those who had turned their backs,” he answered. 

“Where was ‘Uthman?” J asked. 

“He only came three hours after the battle,” he replied. The Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, said to him: “Have you brought a petition 
for (your absence from) it?” 

“Where were you?” I (i.e. Zayd) asked (Ibn Mas‘td). 

“T was among those who had turned their backs (in flight),” he said. 

“Who told you about this, then?” I enquired. 

“Asim and Sahl b. Hunayf,” was his answer. 

“The confirmation of ‘Ali in that position is a source of wonder,” I said. 

“You may well be amazed at that,” he said, “for the angels themselves were 
amazed at it. Didn't you know that Gabriel, peace be on him, said, as he was 
ascending to heaven: “There is no sword except Dhit al-Fiqar; there is no young 
man except ‘AIT?” 

“How is that known about Gabriel, peace be on him?” J asked. 

“The people heard a voice crying that, in the sky,” was his reply. “They asked 
the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, about it. He told them that 


54 


that was Gabriel.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


[In the account of ‘Imran b. Husayn, he reported:]? 

At the battle of Uhud when the people scattered from the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, ‘Alt, peace be on him, came, girding his sword. 
He stood in front of him and the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, raised his head and asked: “Why haven’t you fled with the people?” 
“Apostle of Allah, would I return to being an unbeliever after I had submitted to 
Islam?” he answered. 


(The Prophet) pointed out to him some of the enemy who had come down from 
the hill. (‘Alt) attacked them and put them to flight. Then, (the Prophet) pointed 
out to him some more of the enemy. Again he attacked them and put them to 
flight. The Prophet then pointed out to him another group of the enemy. Yet again 
he attacked them and put them to flight. 


Gabriel, peace be on him, came and said: “The angels are amazed, and we are 
amazed with them, at the selflessness of ‘AII.” 

“What could prevent him from being like this?” replied the Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family. “He is from me and I am from him.” 
“And I, Apostle of Allah, am from you both,” said Gabriel. 


[Al-Hakam b. Zuhayr reported on the authority of al-Suddt, on the authority of 
his father, on the authority of Ibn ‘Abbas:]'° 

On that day Talha b. Abt Talha went forward, stood between the two ranks and 
called out: “Companions of Muhammad, you claim that Allah will hurry us 
towards hellfire through your sword and that we will hurry you towards heaven 
with our swords. Which of you will come forward to fight me in single combat?” 
The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, went forward and declared: 
“By Allah, today I will not leave you until I have hurried you towards hell-fire 
with my sword.” 


The two men exchanged blows. ‘Ali b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, struck him 
on both his legs and cut them. He fell down and was overcome. He said to ‘AIT: 
“T implore you before Allah and kinship (to leave me), cousin.” 

Then he withdrew from him to his position. The Muslims said to him: “You have 
not finished him.” 

“He implored me by Allah and kinship (to leave him),” (‘Alt) told them, “but he 


9 A similar but briefer account in al-Tabari, I, 1402 
10 Report from al-Tabari, 1,1395-6. 


55 


will never survive after that.” 


Talha died where he was. The good news of that was reported to the Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family. He was delighted with that and said: “This 
is the captain of the phalanx.” 


[Muhammad b. Marwan reported on the authority of ‘Umara, on the authority of 
‘Ikrima, who said: I heard ‘Alt, peace be on him, say:] 

When the people fled from the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, at the battle of Uhud, I became more worried than I have ever been and I 
was unable to control myself. I had been in front of him fighting with my sword. 
I went back to look for him. I could not see him. I said to myself: ‘The Apostle of 
Allah would not flee.’ Yet I could not see him among those who had been killed. 
I thought he had been taken up, amid us, into heaven. I broke the sheath of my 
sword and said to myself: ‘I will fight with my sword without (ever putting it 
back into a sheath) until I am killed.’ I attacked the enemy and they scattered 
away from me. Then suddenly (I found that) the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, had fallen to the ground, unconscious. I stood beside 
his head. He looked towards me and spoke: “‘Ali, what have the people done?” 
“They have lost their faith, Apostle of Allah,” I answered. “They have turned 
their backs in flight and surrendered you.” 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, looked towards a phalanx (of 
the enemy) which had approached him. He told me: “Drive this phalanx away 
from me, ‘AIT’. 

I attacked them with my sword and struck out at them to right and left until they 
turned their backs in flight. 

““ Ali, don’t you hear the praise for you in the heavens?” the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, asked me. 

An angel called Radwan was calling out: “There is no sword except Dhi al- 
Fiqar; there is no young man except ‘Ali.” 

I wept with joy and praised Allah, all praise be to Him and may He be extolled 
for His favour. 


[Al-Hasan b. ‘Arafa reported on the authority of ‘“Umara b. Muhammad, on the 
authority of Sa‘d b. Tarif, on the authority of Aba Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘Ali, on 
the authority of his fathers, peace be on them:] 

At the battle of Uhud an angel called out from heaven: “There is no sword except 
Dhi al-Fiqar; there is no young man except ‘Alt.” 


[Similarly Ibrahim b. Muhammad b. Maymin has reported on the authority of 


56 


‘Amr b. Thabit, on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Ubayd Allah b. Abt Rafi‘, on 
the authority of his father, on the authority of his (i.e. Muhammad’s) grandfather, 
who said:]"! 

“We still hear the Companions of the Prophet say that at the battle of Uhud a 
voice called out from heaven: “There is no sword except Dhti al-Fiqar; there is 
no young man except ‘AI1.” 


[Sallam b. Miskin reported on the authority of Qatada, on the authority of Sa‘1d 
b. al-Musayyib, who said:] 
If I had seen the position of ‘Alt, peace be on him, at the battle of Uhud, I would 
have found him standing at the right of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, defending him with his sword when all except him had 
turned their backs in flight. 


[Al-Hasan b. Mahbib reported: Jamil b. ‘Salih told us on the authority of Abi 
‘Ubayda, on the authority of Aba ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far b. Muhammad, on the 
authority of his fathers, peace be on them, who said:] 

At the battle of Uhud, nine persons held the banner (of Quraysh). ‘Ali b. Abt 
Talib, peace be on him, killed them down to the last of them and the enemy were 
put to flight. On that day (the clan of) Makhzim tried to escape but ‘Alj, peace 
be on him, destroyed them. 


“Ali, peace be on him, went forward to fight al-Hakam b. al-Akhnas. He struck 
his leg off from half way up his thigh and he died from that. 


When the Muslims scattered in that way, Umayya b. Abt Hudhayfa b. al-Mughira 
advanced. He was in armour and he was declaring: “Today is the day (of 
vengeance) for Badr.” One of the Muslims opposed him but Umayya b. Abi 
Hudhayfa killed him. ‘Alt b. Abt Talib directed himself towards him and struck 
him on the head with his sword and it was caught in the middle of his helmet. 
Umayya struck out with his sword and the Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him, warded off the blow with his leather shield. It (also) got caught there. 
The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, pulled his sword away from 
his helmet and Umayya also freed his sword from the shield. They both attacked 
each other again. 


‘Ali, peace be on him, reported: “I could see a gap (in his armour, below his 
arm-pit. I struck at it with my sword and killed him. Then I went away from 


him.” 


11 Fuller version in al-Tabart, I, 1402, using the earlier authorities. 


57 


When the people fled from the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, at 
the battle of Uhud and the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, stood 
firm, the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, asked him: “Why don't 
you go with the people?” 

“Go and leave you, Apostle of Allah!” exclaimed the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him. “By Allah, I will not leave you until I am killed or 
Allah has fulfilled His promise of help to you.” 

“Know the good news. ‘Ali,” the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, told him. “Indeed Allah is one who fulfils his promises, and they will 
never inflict the like of this on us again.” 


Then he looked towards a troop which had advanced towards him. He said to 
him: “Attack them, ‘AII.” 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, attacked them. He killed 
Hisham b. Umayya al-Makhziimi, who was among them, and the people fled. 


Another troop advanced. (Again) the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, told him: “Attack them.” He attacked them and killed ‘Amr b. ‘Abd 
Allah al-Jumahi, who was among them. They also fled. Yet another troop 
advanced and again the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, told him 
to attack them. He attacked them and killed Bishr b. Malik al-‘Amiri, who was 
among them. The troop fled. 


After that none of them returned and those of the Muslims who had fled 
began to come back to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. The 
polytheists withdrew towards Mecca and the Muslims went back to Medina with 
the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. Fatima, peace be on her, met 
him. She had with her a jar of water. He washed his face with it and then the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, followed him. Blood covered him 
from his arm to his shoulder. He had (his sword) Dht al-Fiqar with him and he 
gave it to Fatima, peace be on her. 
“Take this sword,” he told her. “It has been true to me today.” He began to 
recite:!? 
Fatima,this sword in not without honour and I am no coward, nor am I 
blameworthy. 


By my life, I have been free from blame in the support (I gave to) Ahmad 


(i.e. Muhammad) and in the obedience (I showed) to a Lord Who knows 
about (those who perform) the worship (of Him). 


12 Similar verses in al-Tabari, 1, 1436. 


58 


Remove the blood of the people from it. Indeed it has offered the cup of 
death to the family of ‘Abd al-Dar for them to drink. 


“Take it, Fatima,” the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
told her. “For your husband has done his duty and through his sword Allah has 
killed the leaders of Quraysh.” 


The biographers of the Prophet (aAl al-siyar) mention the dead of the polytheists 
at Uhud and the majority were slain by the Commander of the Faithful. 


[‘Abd al-Malik b. Hisham reported: Ziyad b. ‘Abd Allah told us on the authority 
of Muhammad b. Ishaq, who said:] 

The standard-bearer of Quraysh at the battle of Uhud was Talha b. Abi Talha b. 
‘Abd al-‘Uzza b. ‘Uthman b. ‘Abd al-Dar. He was killed by ‘Alt b. Abt Talib. 
The latter killed his son Abt Sa‘td b. Talha and his brother Khalid b Abi Talha. 
He also killed ‘Abd Allah b. Humayd b. Zuhra b. al-Harith b. Asad b. ‘Abd 
al-‘Uzza and he killed Abt al-Hakam b. al-Akhnas b. Sharigq al-Thaqafi and al- 
Walid b. Abi Hudhayfa b. al-Mughira. He killed the latter’s brother, Umayya 
b. Abt Hudhayfa b. al-Mughira. He also killed Arta’a b. Sharhabil, Hisham b. 
Umayya, ‘Amr b. ‘Abd Allah al-Jumaht and Bishr b. Malik. He killed Sawab, the 
retainer of the Bani ‘Abd al-Dar.'* 


His was success. The people came back from their rout to the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, (while he was in) the same position in which he had 
been, defending him apart from them. Allah, the Most High, sent disgrace down 
on all of them because of their flight on that day except for him and those of the 
Ansar who stood firm with him. They were eight or (as) it has been said four or 
five. Concerning (the prowess of the Commander of the Faithful in) killing those 
whom he killed at the battle of Uhud, his hardship and his noble suffering, al- 
Hajjaj b. ‘Alat al-Sulamt recited: 

A man who protects Allah’s people (Hizb) belongs to Allah -- I mean the 

son of Fatima (i.e. ‘Alt), the man with important paternal and maternal 

uncles. 


How two hands acted against him with a speedy thrust when you left 
Talha, lying dead (because of a blow) to his forehead. 


You attacked fiercely like a brave man and you scattered them at the foot 
of the hill when they were descending to the bottom. 


13 In the version we have from Ibn Hisham most but not all of these names are included. cf. Ibn 
Hisham, Sira, 610-11. 


59 


You gave your sword a second draught of blood and you did not refuse it 
while it was thirsty until it had quenched its thirst. 


THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE BANT AL-NADIR 


When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, set out against 
the Bani al-Nadir with the intention of besieging them, he set up his tent in the 
furthest (dry) river bed of the Bani Khatma.'* When it was dark night, a man 
from the Band al-Nadir shot an arrow at him and hit the tent. The Prophet, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, ordered his tent to be moved to the foot of the 
mountain, and the Emigrants and Ansar surrounded him. In the confusion of 
darkness, they lost the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. The people 
said: “O Apostle of Allah, we cannot see ‘Alt.” 

He, peace be on him, answered: “I can see him engaged in some enterprise which 
will bring advantage to your task.” 


It was not long before (‘Alt), peace be on him, came back with the head of the 
Jew who had shot at the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He was 
called Ghartr. He threw it down before the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family. The latter asked him: “How did you do that, Abi al-Hasan?” 


“T saw this wicked man coming forward bravely,” he, peace be on him, answered. 
“T lay in wait for him. I said to myself: “What has encouraged him to come out in 
the middle of the night is that he seeks to catch us unawares.’ He advanced with 
his sword drawn amid a group of nine Jews. I attacked him and killed him. His 
companions escaped but they are still near. Send me with a group of men and I 
hope that I will overcome them.” 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, sent ten men with 
him. Among them were Abt Dujana Simak b. Kharasha and Sahl b. Hunayf. 
They reached them before they could take refuge in the fort and they killed them. 
They brought back their heads to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. He ordered that they should be thrown in the wells of the Bant Khatma. 
That was the reason for the conquest of the forts of the Banti al-Nadir. On that 
night Ka‘b b. al-Ashraf was killed.'° 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, appropriated the 


14 Khatma has been adopted from al-Waqidt instead of Hatma. The following anecdote occurs in 
al-Waqidi, al-Maghazi, I, 371-2. al-Waqidi names the Jew as Ghaziik. 

15 In fact Ka‘b seems to have been killed before this campaign. al-Waqidt, dates it the beginning 
of Rabr‘ al-Awwal 3 A.H. cf. al-Waqidi, al-Maghazi, I, 184, and al-Tabari, I. 1368. 


60 


property of the Bani al-Nadir. It was the first palm grove which the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, had divided among the earliest 
Emigrants. He ordered ‘Ali, peace be on him, to take possession of that part of 
it which was (allocated) to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. He made it sadaga and it was in (the Prophet’s) possession throughout 
his life. Then it came into the possession of the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, after him. It is in the possession of the offspring of Fatima to 
this day. 


Concerning the part played by the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
in this campaign and his killing of the Jew and bringing the heads of the group 
of nine to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, Hassan b. Thabit 
recited: 
To Allah belongs any adversity with which you were tested by the Bani 
Qurayza and the men who came in search. 


He destroyed their chief and he brought back ten (heads). Time after time 
he dashed against them and drove them away. 


THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE ALLIES (AHZAB) 


The campaign against the allies took place after the campaign against the Bant 
al-Nadir.'* A group of Jews including Sallam b. Abt al-Hugayq al-Nadiri, Huyayy 
b. Akhtab, Kinana b. al-Rabt‘, Hawdha b. Qays al-Wa‘ilt and Abu ‘Umara al- 
Wa‘ill together with a number of the Bana Wa‘ilt left for Mecca. They went to 
Abi Sufyan Sakhr b. Harb because they knew of his hostility to the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and his (desire) to hasten to fight 
him. They told him about how he (i.e. the Prophet) had treated them and they 
asked him to help them to fight against them. 


Abi Sufyan told them: “I will support you in whatever you want. Therefore go 
to Quraysh and urge them to make war on him and give them guarantees of help 
and support in order to root him out.” 


They went around the leaders of Quraysh and urged them to make war on the 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. They said to them: “Our hands 
will be with your hands and we will be with you until we have rooted him out.” 
16 The first part of this account seems to be summary based on al-Tabari, I, 1463-76, this mainly 
depends on Ibn Ishaq, cf. Ibn Hisham, Sira, 669-79. However, al-Tabari gives information about 
the trench bang Salman’s idea and does not include the verses of ‘Ali which are given by Ibn 


Hisham. In the translation some slight mistakes in names have been corrected in accordance 
with al-Tabart and Ibn Hisham’s versions. 


61 


Quraysh answered: “People of the Jews, you are the people of the first Scripture 
and of former knowledge. You know the religion which Muhammad has brought 
and the religion which we believe in. Is our religion better than his religion or is 
he more endowed with truth than we are?” 

“Indeed, your religion is better than his,” they answered them. 


Quraysh were encouraged because of the war which they had urged them to 
against the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. Abi Sufyan 
came to them and said to them: “God has given you power over your enemy and 
these Jews will fight alongside you and they will not part from you until all of 
them are destroyed or until we extirpate him and those who follow him.” 


At that time their passion to fight against the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, became intense. The Jews left and went to the tribes of Ghatafan and 
Qays ‘Aylan. They urged them to make war on the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. They guaranteed them help and aid and informed 
them of Quraysh’s (desire) to pursue that course. 


They assembled together. Quraysh came and their leader at that time, Abu Sufyan 
Sakhr b. Harb. Ghatafan came with their leader ‘Uyayna b. Hisn, accompanied 
by the Bant Fazara. With the Bani Murra was al-Harith b. ‘Awf and Mas‘tid 
b. Rukhayla b. Nuwayra b. Tarif (came) with his people, the clan of Ashja‘. 
Quraysh gathered with them. 


When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, heard of the 
gathering of the allies (ahzab) against him, and the strength of their desire to 
fight against him, he consulted his Companions. It was their unanimous view 
that they should remain in Medina and fight the people if they came against them 
across the mountain paths. Salman, may Allah have mercy on him, suggested to 
the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, about a trench. He 
ordered it to be dug. He himself worked on it as did the Muslims. 


The allies advanced against the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family. Their power filled the Muslims with fear and they felt terror at 
their number and their gathering. They camped near the ditch and remained 
in their positions for some twenty days without any action taking place 
between them except for the shooting of arrows and (the throwing of) stones. 
When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, perceived the 
weakness of spirit of the majority of Muslims as a result of the siege, and their 
reluctance to fight, he sent to ‘Uyayna b. Hisn and al-Harith b. ‘Awf - they were 
both leaders of Ghatafan. He urged to make peace with him, to leave him and to 


62 


withdraw with their people from the war against him, on the condition that he 
would give them a third of the produce of Medina. He consulted Sa‘d b. Mu‘adh 
and Sa‘d b. ‘Ubada about the terms he sent to ‘Uyayna and al-Harith. They said: 
“Apostle of Allah, this situation requires us to adopt this plan because Allah has 
ordered you to do what you have done with regard to it and inspiration from 
Allah has come to you. Therefore do what seems appropriate to you. If you 
choose to do this on our behalf, then that is our view on the matter.” 
“Inspiration from Allah has not come to me,” he, peace be on him, answered. 
“However, I saw the Arabs united against you (lit., shooting at you from one 
bow) and they had come from every side and I wanted to break up their attack 
against you for a while.” 

“These people and ourselves used to be polytheists and worship idols,” said Sa‘d 
b. Mu‘adh. “We did not know of Allah and we did not worship him. But then 
we did not feed them with our produce except by invitation or by selling it. Now 
when Allah has honoured us with Islam, has guided us with it and has made us 
strong through you, shall we give them our property? What need have we to do 
this? By Allah, we will give them nothing except the sword until Allah decides 
between us and them.” 

“T realise your attitude,” replied the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family. “Therefore remain in your belief. Allah, the Most High, will never 
desert his Prophet nor hand him over to (his enemy) until He fulfils His promise.” 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, stood up before the 
Muslims and urged them to strive against the enemy. He encouraged them and 
he told them of Allah’s help. 


Leading horsemen of Quraysh volunteered to take part in single combat against 
(Muslim fighters). (They were) ‘Amr b. ‘Abd Wudd b. Abi Qays b. ‘Amir b. 
Lu’ayy b. Ghalib, ‘Ikrima b. Abi Jahl, Hubayra b. Abt Wahb - (the last two were 
both from the clan of) Makhzim - Dirar b. al-Khattab and Mirdas al-Fihri. They 
dressed for battle and went out until they passed the houses of the Bant Kinana. 
They called out: “Banti Kinana, get ready for battle.” 


They went on, with their horses hurrying forward, until they stopped at the 
trench. After they had pondered it, they said: “This is a cunning trick which the 
Arabs have never used.” 


They aimed themselves at a place in the trench which was narrow. They struck 


their horses and they rushed blindly at it. (Their horses) brought them on to the 
swampy ground between the ditch and (the hill of) Sulay‘*. 


63 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, came out with a group of 
Muslims so that they could hold the gap (in their defences) which these men had 
charged through. ‘Amr b. ‘Abd Wudd advanced with the group who had come 
out with him. He raised his standard so that his position could be seen. When he 
saw the Muslims, he and the cavalry with him stopped. 


“Is there anyone who will engage in single combat?” he called out. The 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, advanced towards him. 

“Go back, cousin,” ‘Amr told him. “J don't want to kill you.” 

“You have made a promise to God, ‘Amr, that no man of Quraysh would 
give you two courses without you choosing one of them from him,” said the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 

“Indeed,” he replied, “what is that?” 

“T summon you to Allah, His Apostle and to Islam,” he said. 

“T have no need of that,” he answered. 

“Then I summon you to fight.” 

“Go back,” he told him, “there was great friendship between me and your father 
and I don't want to kill you.” 

“By Allah, I am willing to kill you as long as you continue to deny the truth,” 
retorted the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 

At that he became angry and said: “Will you kill me?” 


He dismounted from his horse, hocked it and struck its face until it leapt away. 
Then he advanced towards ‘Ali, peace be on him, with his sword drawn. He 
brought his sword quickly against him but he got his sword caught in the shield 
of ‘Alt, peace be on him. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
struck a (fierce) blow against him and killed him. 


When ‘Ikrima b. Abt Jahl, Hubayra b. Abt Wahb and Dirar b. al-Khattab saw 
‘Amr lying prostrate they turned their horses and fled until they rushed across the 
trench without looking at anything. 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, went back to his former 
position. The spirits of those who had come out to the trench with (‘Amr) were 
full of grief while (‘Alt) recited: 
He supported stone idols because of his view which lacked judgement 
while I supported the Lord of Muhammad because of true guidance. 


I struck him and I left him fallen like the stump of a palm tree between 
sandy ground and hills. 


64 


I refrained from taking his clothes even though if I had fallen, he would 
have robbed me of my clothes. 


O people of the alliance (ahzab), do not think that Allah will abandon His 
religion and His Prophet. 


[Muhammad b. ‘Umar al-Waqidi reported: ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far told me on the 
authority of Abt ‘Awn on the authority of al-Zuhri, who said:]!’ 

“Amr b. ‘Abd Wudd, ‘Ikrima b. Ab1- Jahl, Hubayra b. Abi Wahb, Nawfal b. ‘Abd 
Allah b. al-Mughira and Dirar b. al-Khattab came one day during the campaign 
of the alliance to the trench. They began to go around it looking for a narrow 
place along it so that they could cross. They came to an (unguarded) place where 
they forced their horses to cross. They began to ride their horses in the area 
between the trench and Sulay‘. 


The Muslims held back: none of them advanced against them. ‘Amr b. ‘Abd 
Wudd began to call for a single-combat while he chided the Muslims saying: 
I have become hoarse through calling to all of you, is there anyone who 
will come forward to fight in single combat? 


All that time ‘Alt was standing ready to go out and fight against him. The 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, ordered him to sit down 
and wait so that someone else might take action. However, on that day, the 
Muslims remained motionless as if birds were resting their heads because of the 
(great) status of ‘Amr b. ‘Abd Wudd and their fear of him, and those with him 
and those behind him. 


After ‘Amr had been calling for battle for a long time and the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, started to stand up again, the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, said to him: “Come close to me, ‘Al1.” 


He went close to him and (the Prophet) took off his turban from his own head and 
put it on him and he gave him his sword, saying: “Carry out your task.” 
Then he said: “O Allah, give him assistance.” 


He ran out towards ‘Amr. With him went Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah al-Ansari, may 
Allah have mercy on him, so that he might see what happened between the two 
men. When the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, reached ‘Amr, he 
said to him: “‘Amr, in the days of ignorance (before the Prophet’s mission), you 


17 The account follows al-Waqidi, al-Maghazi, I, 470-72. But the isndd given is incorrect. al- 
Mufid’s account is .shorter. 


65 


used to say: ‘No one will summon me to three - meaning al-Lat, al-‘Uzza (and 
Manat) - without me accepting them or one of them.’” 

“Indeed,” he replied. 

“T summon you to the testimony that there is no God but Allah and that Muhammad 
is the Apostle of Allah, and to submit to Allah, Lord of the worlds,” he said. 
“Cousin,” he answered, “delay this matter from me for a time.” 

“It would be better for you, if you adopted it,” replied the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him. Then he said, “Here is an alternative.” 

“What is that?” 

“That you go back to where you came from,” he replied. 

“The women of Quraysh would never accept that,” he answered. 

“Then here is yet another alternative.” 

“What is that?” 

“That you dismount and fight me,” (‘Alt) replied. 

‘Amr laughed and said: “This is not the course that I thought an Arab would 
desire of me. I am unwilling to kill a noble man like you. Moreover your 
father was a bosom companion of mine. (Go back, you are only a young man. 
I only want to fight the two older men (shaykhayn) of Quraysh, Abt Bakr and 
‘Umar.)”!® 

“But I want to fight you,” retorted ‘Ali, peace be on him. 

‘Amr became angry and dismounted. He struck his horse in its face so that it 
went back. 


[Jabir, may Allah have mercy on him, reported:] 

The dust rose up around them so that I could not see them. But I heard the words 
Allahu Akbar (Allah is greater) coming out of it and I knew that ‘Ali, peace be 
on him, had killed him. His companions fled with the horses jumping over the 
trench. The Companions of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
hurried forward when they heard the words Allahu Akbar, searching for what 
these people had done. They found Nawfal b. ‘Abd Allah in the middle of the 
trench. His horse could not jump out of it. They began to hurl stones at him. 


“Death should be nobler than this,” he shouted to them. “Let one of you come 
down to me and fight against me.” 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, went down to him, struck him 
down and killed him.'’ 


He followed Hubayra and hit him from behind. Then the binding of his saddle 
was struck and the armour on (his horse) fell off. ‘Ikrima fled and Dirar b. al- 


18 The two sentences in brackets are not in al-Mufid’s text. 
19 In al-Waqidi’s version the rest of the fighting is attributed to al-Zubayr. 


66 


Khattab made his escape. 


Jabir said (of this): I do not know how to describe ‘Ali’s killing of ‘Amr except 
with the words which Allah used to tell the story of David and Goliath where He, 
may His affair be exalted, says: So by the permission of Allah, they routed them 
and David killed Goliath (II 251). 


[Qays b. Rabi‘ reported: Abt Hariin al-‘Abdi told us on the authority of Rabi‘a 
al-Sa‘di, who said:] 

I went to Hudhayfa b. al-Yaman and asked him: “O Aba ‘Abd Allah, let us talk 
about ‘AIj, peace be on him, and his great qualities, for the Basrans say to us that 
we exaggerate (the qualities of) ‘Ali. Aren’t you someone who reports traditions 
about him?” 


Hudhayfa answered: “Rabi‘a, do not ask me about ‘Alt, peace be on him. For, 
by Allah in Whose hand is my soul, if all the actions of the Companions of 
Muhammad, may Allah bless Him and His Family, from the time of Allah 
giving Muhammad his mission until this present day were put in one balance of 
the scales and the actions of ‘Ali, peace be on him, were put in the other, ‘Ali's 
actions, peace be on him, would outweigh all their actions.” 

“This is something which no one could accept either standing or sitting,” retorted 
Rabi‘a. 


“O vile fellow,” declared Hudhayfa, “how do you think (otherwise)? Where were 
Abi Bakr, ‘Umar, Hudhayfa and all the Companions of Muhammad, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, on the day ‘Amr b. ‘Abd Wudd (called them to fight)? 
He called on them to fight in single combat and all the people drew back in fear 
except ‘Ali, peace be on him. He went forward to fight him and Allah killed him 
acting through his hand. By Allah in Whose hand is Hudhayfa, his action on that 
day was greater in measure than the action of the Companions of Muhammad, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, until the Day of Resurrection.” 


[Hisham b. Muhammad reported on the authority of Ma‘raf b. Kharrabiidh, who 
said:] 
At the battle of the Trench, ‘Ali b. Abi Talib recited: 
Was it against me that the horsemen rushed? Tell my companions about 
me and it. 
On that day, my zeal (to defend the Prophet) prevented me from fleeing. 


A penetrating sword in the head is not a blunt one. 


67 


I destroyed ‘Amr because he became tyrannical, with a sword of Indian 
iron, (a sword) of pure iron, a sharp cutting (sword). 


I went away after I had left him fallen like the stump of a palm tree 
between sandy ground and hills. 


I refrained from taking his clothes even though if I had fallen, he would 
have robbed me of my clothes.”° 


[Yunis b. Bukayr reported on the authority of Muhammad b. Ishaq:]?! 

When ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, had killed ‘Amr, he came towards the 
Apostle of Allah, Allah bless Him and His Family, with a smiling face. ‘Umar 
asked him: “‘Alt, have you plundered his armour, for there is not any like it 
among the Arabs?” 

“I was ashamed to uncover the private parts of my cousin,” answered the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 


[‘Umar b. Abt al-Azhari reported on the authority of ‘Amr b. ‘Ubayd on the 
authority of al-Hasan:] 

When ‘Alt, peace be on him, killed ‘Amr b. ‘Abd Wudd, he cut off his head, and 
took it and threw it before the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. Abi 
Bakr and ‘Umar got up and kissed the head of “Alt, peace be on him. 


[‘Alt b. al-Hakim al-Awdi reported: I Heard Abi Bakr. b. ‘Ayyash say:] 

‘Al struck a more powerful blow than any other in Islam - that is the blow 
(which killed) ‘Amr b. ‘Abd Wudd. He, peace be on him, was struck down by 
a blow more inauspicious than any struck in Islam - that is the blow of Ibn 
Muljam, may Allah curse him. 


With regard to (the campaign) against the allies, Allah the Exalted revealed: 
When they came against you from above you and from below you and when 
your eyes looked away and your hearts were in your throats and you were 
entertaining doubts about Allah, then at that place were the believers tested and 
violently shaken. The Hypocrites and those with sickness in their hearts were 
saying: Allah and His Apostle have promised us nothing except deceit. (XXXII 
10-12) Allah relieved the believers from fighting. Allah was powerful and mighty. 
(XXXII 25) 


20 The last two verses are reported in the verses on page 65. 
21 cf. Guillaumes’s translation, The Life of Muhammad, (Oxford, 1955), 456, where he translates 
the following from Ibn Ishaq on the authority of Ibn Sayyid al-Nas. 


68 


Thus he directed against them censure, blame, reproof and a sermon. 
By (common) consent the only person excluded from the blame was the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, since the conquest had been 
brought about by him and through his hands. His killing of ‘Amr and Nawfal b. 
‘Abd Allah was the cause of the defeat of the polytheists. The Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “From this moment we will raid 
them, and they will (no longer) raid us.” 


[Yusuf b. Kulayb reported on the authority of Sufyan b. Zayd, on the authority of 
Qurra and others, on the authority of “Abd Allah b. Mas‘tid:] 

He (‘Abd Allah b. Mas‘id) used to recite this verse (XXXII 25): Did not Allah 
relieve you from fighting (through ‘Ali?) Allah was powerful and mighty. 


About the killing of ‘Amr b.‘Abd Wudd, Hassan b. Thabit, may Allah have 
mercy on him, used to recite: 
The young ‘Amr b. ‘Abd has come close to the flanks of Yathrib. 
Repayment (for his death) is not expected. 


You found our swords drawn, you found our good horses were not 
deficient. 


On the morning of the battle of Badr you saw a band who struck you with 
a blow which was not weak. 


You have come (to a state), ‘Amr, when you will (no longer) be summoned 
to a great campaign, or to the mighty execution of repugnant deeds.” 


It is said that when the poetry of Hassan b. Thabit reached the Banti ‘Amir, one 
of their young men. answered him. He recited in reply to Hassan’s boasting and 
great praise about the Ansar: 
By the Sacred House of God, you have lied. You did not kill us but it was 
by the sword of the Hashimites, so boast on (about nothing to do with 
yourselves). 


By the sword of the son of ‘Abd Allah, Ahmad (i.e. Muhammad) and by 
the arm of ‘Al1 in the battle, you gained that. So stop. 


You did not kill ‘Amr b. ‘Abd through your courage. But it was a rival like 
a great old lion. 


22 cf. Ibn Hisham, Sira, 710. 


69 


It was ‘Ali, whose standing in pride has lasted long. So do not make so 
many claims against us and look scornful. 


At Badr, you came out for battle and the leaders of Quraysh openly held 
back from you and delayed. 


Then when Hamza and ‘Ubayda came against them and ‘Ali came 
forward brandishing his Indian sword, 


They said: “Yes these are truly our equals.” So they came forward against 
them quickly since they wished (for battle) and showed pride. 


‘Ali circled the field in Hashimite style. (It was he who) destroyed them 
when they showed haughtiness and pride. 


There is no case for your pride over us with anyone else. There is no case 
for your proud boasts to be considered and mentioned. 


[Ahmad b ‘Abd al-‘Aziz reported: Sulayman b. Ayyib told us on the authority of 
Abi al-Husayn al-Mada’ int, who said:] 

When ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, killed ‘Amr b. ‘Abd Wudd and the 
news of his death was given to his sister, she asked: “Who attacked him?” 

“Alt b. Abi Talib,” they told her. 

She said: “His death can only be considered (as being brought about) at the hand 
of a noble equal. There is no reason that my tears should cease since I have shed 
them for him who has killed heroes and has come forward in battle against an 
equal. His fate was at the hand of a noble equal. I have not heard of a man with 
more (right to) pride than this man, O Bani ‘Amir.” 


Then she began to recite: 
If the killer of ‘Amr had been any other man, I would have wept for ever. 


But the killer of ‘Amr cannot be charged with any defect. He was a man 
who was called of old the foremost of the land. 


She also recited concerning the killing of her brother and remembrance of ‘Alt b. 
Abt Talib, the blessings and peace of Allah be on him: 
Two lions attacked one another in a narrow field of battle, each of them 
was a noble and brave equal. 


Both of them wanted to tear the souls away from each other in the middle 


70 


of the battlefield, either by stealth or by fighting. 


Both attended the struggle with zeal. No distracting distraction diverted 
either man from that. 


Then ‘Alt, go, for you have never gained a victory like this. That is a true 
statement in which there is no unfairness. 


‘Ali, vengeance will be mine. Would that I could come upon him, then my 
blood-vengeance would be complete. 


Quraysh have been humiliated after the death of a (noble) horseman. Thus 
humiliation is what will destroy them and disgrace is all-embracing. 


Then she said: “By Allah, as long as Quraysh do not avenge my brother, the old 
she-camel will remain unmarried.” 


THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE BANU QurRAyZzA”? 


When the allies were routed and turned their backs (in flight) from the Muslims, 
the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, turned his attention 
to the Bani Qurayza. He sent the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
to them with thirty men from (the tribe) of Khazraj. He told him: “See whether 
Bant Qurayza have left their fortresses.” 


When he looked over their walls, he heard them cursing. He returned to the 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and gave him the information. 
He said: “Leave them. Indeed Allah will give us power over them, for He who 
gave you power over ‘Amr b. ‘Abd Wudd will not desert you. Therefore wait 
until the people gather before you and tell them of the victory brought through 
Allah. Allah, the Most High, has helped me by (spreading) terror from here to a 
distance of a month’s (travel).” 


“Alt, peace be on him, reported: The people gathered before me. I went up close 
to their walls. One of them shouted out: “The killer of ‘Amr has come against 
you.” Another called out: “The killer of ‘Amr has come towards you.” They 
began to shout to one another, telling each other about that. Allah threw terror 
into their hearts and I heard a reciter say: 


23 This account summarises the reports of al-Tabari, I, 1385, and Ibn Hisham, Sira, 684-89. 
However, they do not include the details about ‘Ali and the fear he caused, nor his words at the 
time of the execution, though al-Tabari gives his name as one of the executioners. 


71 


‘Alt has killed ‘Amr. 

‘Alt has hunted down a hawk. 
‘Alt has punished a wrongdoer. 
“Alt has weakened (their) affair. 
‘Alt has brought (them) shame. 


I said: “Praise be to Allah Who has given victory to Islam and suppressed 
polytheism.” 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, had said to me when I had set 
off towards the Batu Qurayza: “Go with the blessing, of Allah, the Most High. 
Indeed Allah has promised you their land and their estates.” 


I went in the certainty of the help of Allah, the Mighty and High. I planted 
the standard at the chief fortress. They received me, while remaining in their 
fortresses, with curses against the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family. 


When I heard them cursing him, I so hated to hear that being said against the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, that I determined to 
return to him. Yet he, may Allah bless Him and His Family, had already appeared 
and had heard them cursing him. He called out to them: “Brothers of apes and 
pigs, when we arrive at the court of the people, then how evil will be the morning 
of those who have been warned.” 


They replied: “Abt al-Qasim, you did not use to be an ignorant man nor one who 
cursed much.” 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, felt ashamed and 
went back for a little while. Then he ordered his tent to be pitched opposite 
their fortresses. The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, remained 
besieging the Bani Qurayza for twenty-five days. At last they asked him (for 
surrender terms), agreeing that they should submit to the judgement of Sa‘d b. 
Mu‘adh. Sa‘d decreed the sentence that the men should be killed, the women and 
children enslaved and their property divided out. 


“Sa‘d, you have given judgement on them according to Allah’s judgement 
from above the seven firmaments,” the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, told him. Then the Prophet ordered their men to be brought - they were 
nine hundred - and they were taken to Medina. The property was divided out 
and the women and children were enslaved. When the prisoners were brought to 


72 


Medina, they were detained in the houses of the Bani al-Najjar. 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, went out to the place 
which is now the market. Trenches had been dug there. The Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, was present and with him were the Muslims. He had 
ordered them to come out. He had earlier told the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, that the heads (of the prisoners) should be struck (so that they 
fell) into the trench. (The prisoners) were brought out in groups. Among them 
were Huyayy b. Akhtab and Ka‘b b. Asad. At that time they were the leaders 
of the people. They had said to Ka‘b when they were about to be taken to the 
Apostle of Allah: “Ka‘b, what do you think he will do with us?” 


He answered: “You don’t seem to understand anything anywhere. Don’t you see 
that the man who summons you will not desist and that whoever goes will not 
return? By God, (your future) is to be killed.” 


Huyayy b. Akhtab was brought out with his two hands tied around his neck. 
When he looked towards the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, he said: “By God, I do not blame myself for my hostility to you. Yet 
whomsoever God deserts, is deserted.” 


Then he approached the people and said: “People, there is no escape from the 
order of God. It is written and ordained. It has been decreed that such slaughter 
is the lot of the Bani Isra77l.” 


Then he stood before the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, while 
saying: “Noble victims are slain by a noble hand.” 

“Rather,” replied the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, “the select 
of the people will kill the evil ones among them and the evil ones among them 
will kill the select. There will be woe to those whom the select and noble kill and 
there will be happiness for those whom the wicked unbelievers kill.” 

“True,” he replied, “but do not plunder my robes.” 

“It would be most despicable of me to do that,” he answered. 

“You have covered me, may God cover you,” he said and stretched out his neck. 
“Ali, peace be on him, struck it and he did not plunder him in front of them. Then 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, asked those who had brought 
him: “What was Huyayy saying while he was being led to his death?” 


They replied that he was saying: 
By your life, Ibn Akhtab does not blame himself but whomsoever God 
deserts is deserted. 


73 


He strove until his soul attained (the maximum) of its exertion, and he has 
attempted to search for greatness in every disturbing situation. 


The Commander of the Faithful, ‘Ali, blessings and peace be on him, said: 
He was a man of earnestness, earnestness in his unbelief. He was brought 
out to us in bonds as he was forcibly pulled along. 


I put my sword around his neck with a blow of one who preserves (the 
truth). He went to the pit of Hell as the captive he was. 


That is the place of return for unbelievers, while those who obey the 
commands of Allah are the creatures who will dwell in eternal 
(happiness). 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, chose from their 
women (Rayhana, daughter of) ‘Amr b. Khunafa. Of their women, only one was 
killed. She had thrown a stone at him when he had come in front of the Jews 
in order to negotiate with them before the war broke out between them. Allah 
protected him from that stone. 


The conquest of the Bani Qurayza and Allah’s victory to the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, was brought about through the Commander of the 
Faithful, and because of those whom he had killed and because of terror which 
Allah, the Mighty and High, threw into their hearts with regard to him. This great 
virtue has already been described among his virtues, peace be on him, just as this 
quality has already been mentioned in the enumeration of his qualities, peace be 
on him. 


(THe BaTTLe oF DHAT AL-SALAsIL)”4 


(The part played) by the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, in the 
campaign of Wadi al-Raml - it is reported that it was named the campaign of 
Dhat al-Salasil - has been preserved by religious scholars, recorded by jurists, 
handed down by traditionists (ashab al-athar) and reported by historians (naqalat 
al-akhbar) as being one of the matters which may be attributed to his qualities, 
peace be on him, and described as one of his outstanding virtues in battle (jihad). 
(The account) has been agreed as a single unit in sense by all men. 


24 This account is out of place. A fuller version is given, pages 240-244. cf al-Tabari, I, 1604-5 
and al-Waqidi, al-Maghazi, Il, 769-71. In their account, first ‘Amr b. al-‘As is sent and then 
Abii ‘Ubayda. There is no mention of ‘Ali. 


74 


The biographers of the Prophet (ashab al-siyar) have reported that one day the 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was sitting down when a Bedouin 
came and squatted in front of him and said: “I have come to advise you.” 
“What is your advice?” he asked. 

“A group of Arabs,” he told him, “have plotted to come and attack you at night 
in Medina.” Then he described them to him. 


Then (the Prophet) ordered the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
to call out: “The prayer is general (al-salat jami‘a, i.e. all should attend the 
prayer).” The Muslims gathered and the Prophet went up on to the pulpit. He 
praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: “People, there is an enemy of Allah 
and of you. (News) has come for you that they will attack you at night in Medina. 
Who will go to the valley?” 


One of the Emigrants stood up and said: “I will go there, Apostle of Allah.” 
So he gave him the flag and gathered seven hundred men for him. Then he said 
to him: “Depart in the name of Allah.” 


He arrived before the people at mid-morning. They said to him: “Who is the 
man?” 

“T am a messenger of the Apostle of Allah,” he answered. “Either you declare: 
There is no God but Allah alone, Who has no partner and Muhammad is His 
servant and His Apostle; or I will strike you down with my sword.” 


“Go back to your master,” they told him, “for we are in such numbers as you 
could have no power over.” 

The man returned and informed the Apostle of Allah about that. The Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, (again) asked: “Who will go to the valley?” 


Another man from the Emigrants stood up and said: “I will go there, Apostle of 
Allah.” He gave him the standard and he set out. Then he returned exactly as his 
first colleague had returned. Then the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, said: “Where is ‘Ali b. Abt Talib?” 


The Commander of tile Faithful, peace be on him, stood up and said: “I am here, 
Apostle of Allah.” 

“Go to the valley,” he told him. 

“Yes,” he replied. 


He had a turban which he could not put on until the Prophet, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, sent him on a difficult mission. He went to the house of 


75 


Fatima, peace be on her, and he asked her for the turban. 

“Where are you going?” she asked. “Where has my father sent you?” 

“To Wadi al-Raml,” he answered. 

She wept in anxiety for him. The Prophet came in while she was still in that state. 
“Why are you crying?” he said. “Are you afraid that your husband will be killed? 
No indeed, not if Allah, the Exalted, wishes (him not to be).” 

“Don’t deprive me of heaven, Apostle of Allah,” ‘Ali, peace be on him, said to 
him. 


Then he set out. With him he took the standard of the Prophet. He went on until 
he reached people in the evening. He waited until morning and then prayed the 
morning prayer with his companions. He put them in ranks and leant on his 
sword as he advanced towards the enemy. 


“Men,” he called out, “I am the messenger of the Apostle of Allah to you that 
you should declare: There is no God but Allah and Muhammad is His servant 
and His Apostle. If you do not, I will strike you down with my sword.” 

“Go back like your colleagues went back,” they said. 

“By Allah, I will not go back until you submit to Islam or I have struck you 
down with this sword of mine,” he answered. “I am ‘Ali b. Abi Talib b. ‘Abd 
al-Muttalib.” 


The people became agitated when they realised who he was. Then they 
became courageous enough to fight against him, peace be on him. He killed six 
or seven of them. Then the polytheists fled and the Muslims were victorious. 
They collected up the booty and he set off back to the Prophet, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family. 


[It is reported on the authority of Umm Salama, the mercy of Allah be on her, 
who said: ] 

The Prophet of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, used to take a siesta 
in my house. When he woke up frightened by a dream, I told him: “Allah is He 
Who will give you neighbourly protection.” 

“True,” he said, “Allah is the One Who will give me neighbourly protection. But 
Gabriel, peace be on him, told me that ‘AIT is coming.” 


Then he went out to the people and ordered them to meet ‘Ali. The Muslims 
positioned themselves in two ranks with the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family. When (‘Alt) saw the Prophet he dismounted from his horse 
and bent to (the Apostle’s) feet to kiss them. The (Prophet) said to him, peace 
be on him: “Mount (your horse). Allah, the Exalted, and His Apostle are pleased 


76 


with you.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, wept with joy and went off 
to his house. The Muslims handed over the booty. Then the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, asked some of those who were with him in the army: 
“What did you think of your commander?” 

“We were aware of nothing from him except that he never led us in the prayer 
without reciting in it: Say. He is One Allah (CXII),” they answered. 

“T will ask him about that,” said the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. 


When he came upon him, he asked him, “Why in the statutory prayers, did you 
only recite Surat al-Ikhlas (CX) with them?” 

“Apostle of Allah,” he answered, “I loved it.” 

“Indeed Allah has loved you as you have loved it,” said the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. Then he said: “‘Ali if it was not for the fact that I am 
concerned that some factions will say of you what the Christians say of Jesus, 
son of Mary, I would say of you today words such as (after them) you would 
never pass a gathering of men without them taking the soil from your feet.” 


The conquest in this campaign was especially due to the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, after others had completely failed in it. ‘Alt, peace be 
on him, was especially singled out for praise for it from the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. These are virtues the like of which did not occur in 
anyone else. Many biographers of the Prophet (ashdab al-siyar) have mentioned 
that it was with regard to this campaign that the Sarat al-‘Adiyat (the Swift- 
Runners) (C) was revealed to the Prophet and that it includes the report of the 
circumstances in which the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, acted 
there. 


THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE BANU AL-MUSTALIQ”> 


Then there are the reports which are well known among religious scholars of 
his heroism, peace be on him, against the Bant al-Mustaliq. The conquest was 
due to him in that campaign after men from the Banu ‘Abd al-Muttalib had 
been struck down. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, killed two 
of the enemy: they were Malik and his son. The Prophet of Allah took many 
prisoners whom he divided out among the Muslims. Among the prisoners 
captured on that day were Juwayra daughter of al-Harith b. Abi Dirar. The 


25 ‘Ali’s exploits are reported by al-Tabari, I, 1516, and Ibn Hisham, Sira, 729, but in that account 
he does not have any part in the Prophet’s acquisition of Juwayra. 


77 


battle-cry of the Muslims during the battle with the Bant al-Mustaliq was: Ya 
Mansir, amit. “O He Who is victorious, bring death,” The Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, captured Juwayra and took her to the Prophet, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family. Her father came to the Prophet after the rest 
of the tribe had submitted to Islam and said: “O Apostle of Allah, my daughter 
should not be a prisoner because she is a noble woman.” 

“Go and ask her choice,” he told him. 

“You are good and kind,” he replied. 

Then her father went to her and said: “My little child, do not disgrace your tribe.” 
“T have chosen Allah and His Apostle,” she answered. 

“Allah has now done this for you,” her father told her. 


It was settled and the Apostle of Allah freed her and put her in the group of his 
wives. 


(THe ExpepITIONn TO AL-Hupaystyya)”° 


(The expedition to) al-Hudaybiyya followed (the campaign against) the Bani al- 
Mustaliq. At that time the standard was given to the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, just as it had been on many occasions before that. His bravery 
in the ranks of the men on that day both in war and battle has appeared from what 
was reported and mention of it has become widespread. That was after the pledge 
of allegiance (bay ‘a) which the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
took from his Companions and (they gave) their covenants to remain steadfast. 
The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was the one who took the 
women’s pledge of allegiance on behalf of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family. On that day their pledge of allegiance took the form that he threw 
a robe between himself and them and he rubbed it with his hand and they made 
their pledge of allegiance to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
by rubbing the robe. Then the Apostle rubbed the robe of ‘Alt, peace be on him. 


Other things connected with (the expedition to) al-Hudaybiyya are (as follows). 
When Suhay!l b. ‘Amr saw them and came towards their position, he begged the 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, for peace. Inspiration came down 
on the Prophet in answer to that, and that he should make the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, his writer on that day and the one who would take 
down the peace treaty in his handwriting. 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said to him: “‘Alt, write 


26 The details of ‘Alt’s involvement with women’s pledge do not seem to be reported by the early 
histories nor the prophecy of ‘Ali’s treaty. The other accounts are not recorded by them. 


78 


down: In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate.” 


“This is something which is being written between us and you, Muhammad,” 
Suhayl b. ‘Amr intervened. “Therefore begin with something which we accept 
and write: In Your name, O God.” 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said to the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him: “Remove what you have written and write: In Your 
name, O God.” 


“Tf it was not for the fact that I obey you, Apostle of Allah, I would not remove: 
In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate,” the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, replied. Then he removed it and wrote: In Your name, 
O God. 


Then the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, told him: “Write: This is 
what the Apostle of Allah and Suhayl b. ‘Amr have agreed upon.” 

However Suhay] b. ‘Amr again intervened, saying: “If] accepted this description 
of you in this document which is being made between us, I would have admitted 
prophethood to you, otherwise by agreeing to that I would be witnessing against 
myself or at least expressing it with my tongue. Remove this name and write: 
This is what Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah has agreed upon.” 


“Indeed, by Allah, he is truly the Apostle of Allah despite your arrogance,” said 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 

“Write his name as the condition which must be carried out,” retorted Suhayl. 
“Suhayl, woe on you, cease from your obstinate behaviour,” the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, said to him. 

“Remove it, ‘Ali,” the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, ordered 
him. 

“Apostle of Allah,” he said, “my hand will not move to remove your name from 
association with prophethood.” 

“Then put my hand on it,” he said to him. 


He did that and the Apostle of Allah removed it with his own hand. Then he said 
to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him: “You will be asked to do the 
same and you will agree to it despite any pain (it causes you).” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, completed the document. 
When the truce had been completed, the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 


and His Family, slaughtered his sacrificial victim, which had been destined for 


79 


Mecca, where he was. 


The system of the organisation of this expedition had been dependent on the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. All that took place in it including 
the pledge of allegiance, the drawing up of the people in ranks for battle and then 
the truce and the writing of the document, had been due to the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him. There was in what Allah had arranged, the sparing of 
the shedding of blood and the well-being of the position of Islam. 


The people have reported of the raid, two virtues with which he was specially 
singled out, in addition to what we have already mentioned. 


We have added these to his great virtues and noble qualities. 


[Ibrahim b. ‘Umar reported on the authority of those men he relies upon, on the 
authority of Qayid, the retainer of ‘Abd Allah b. Salim, who said:] 

When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, set out on 
the ‘umra (the minor pilgrimage) of al-Hudaybiyya, he stopped at al-Juhfa 
and did not find any water there. He sent Sa‘d b. Malik with the water-skins. 
However Sa‘d returned with the water-skins after only going a little way. He 
said: “Apostle of Allah, I was not able to continue. My legs stopped moving out 
of fear of the enemy.” 

“Sit down,” the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, told him. 


Then he sent for another man. He went out with the water-skins but when he 
reached the place where the first had stopped, he also returned. The Apostle of 
Allah asked him: “Why have you returned?” 

“Apostle of Allah,” he answered, “by Him Who sent you with the truth as a 
prophet, I was not able to continue because of my fear.” 


The Apostle of Allah summoned the Commander of the Faithful and sent 
him with the water-skins. Those who were thirsty came out but they were not 
complaining about his return since they had seen the return of those who 
had gone before him. ‘Ali, peace be on him, went out with the water-skins. 
Eventually he reached al-Harar and looked for water. Then be brought them back 
to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. There were shouts of joy 
for them. When he entered, the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
declared: “Allah is greater (Allahu akbar),” and he prayed for goodness for him. 


In this expedition, Suhayl b. ‘Amr approached the Prophet and said to him: 
“Muhammad, our slaves have joined you, send them back to us.” 


80 


The Apostle of Allah was so angry that the anger could be seen in his face. He 
said: “Men of Quraysh, desist or Allah will send on you a man whose heart Allah 
has examined for faith who will strike your necks according to (the requirements 
of) religion.” 


One of those present asked: “Apostle of Allah, is Abi Bakr that man?” 

“No,” he answered. 

“Then is it ‘Umar?” he asked. 

“No,” he replied, “it is he who is patching sandals within the enclosure.” The 
people hurried to the enclosure to see who the man was and there was the 
Commander of the Faithful, ‘Ali b. Abi Talib peace be on him. 


A group of men report this tradition on the authority of the Commander of the 
Faithful. In it they say that ‘Alj, peace be on him, told this story and then he said: 
“T heard the Apostle say: Whoever vies against ‘Ali deliberately, will take as his 
own a place in Hell-fire.” 


What the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was repairing was the 
strap of one of the sandals of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 
It had broken and he was patching the place and repairing it. 


[Isma‘il b. ‘Ali al-‘Ammt reported on the authority of Na’il b. Najih, on the 
authority of ‘Amr b. Shamir, on the authority of Jabir b. Yazid, on the 
authority of Abi Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘Ali, on the authority of his father, peace 
be on them, who said: ] 

The strap of the sandal of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
had broken. He gave it to ‘Ali, peace be on him, to repair. Then he walked with 
one sandal for the distance of about a bow-shot. He approached his Companions 
and said: “One among you will fight for the interpretation (of the Qur’an) as he 
fought with me for its revelation.” 

“T am that man, Apostle of Allah,” said Abt Bakr. 

“No,” he replied. 

“I, Apostle of Allah,” said ‘Umar. 

“No,” he replied. 

The people desisted and looked at one another. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, said: “It is the one who is repairing the sandal.” 
Then he indicated with his hand towards ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him. 
“He will fight for the interpretation (of the Qur’an) when my practice (sunna) is 
abandoned and neglected and the Book of Allah is distorted and when those who 
have no right speak of religion, ‘Alt, peace be on him, will fight them in order to 
revive the religion of Allah, the Exalted.” 


81 


THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST KHAYBAR 


After al-Hudaybiyya, there followed the campaign against Khaybar. In that too, 
beyond any doubt, success was due to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him. What has been gathered from the accounts of the reporters makes clear 
his great merit in this campaign, and uniquely characterizes him in the qualities 
shared by no other person. 

[Yahya b. Muhammad al-Azdi reported on the authority of Mas‘ada b. Yasa‘ and 
‘Abd Allah b. ‘Abd al-Rahim, on the authority of ‘Abd al-Malik b. Hisham and 
Muhammad b. Ishaq and other traditionists (ashab al-athar), who say:]*’ 

When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, drew near to 
Khaybar, he said to the people: “Halt” 


The people halted and he raised his hand towards the sky and said: “O Allah, 
Lord of the seven heavens and what they shade, Lord of the seven earths and 
what they maintain, Lord of the devils and what they lead astray, I ask You for 
the good of this village and the good of what is in it and I seek refuge with You 
from its evil and the evil that is in it.” 


Then he went down under a tree in that place. He stayed there and we stayed 
there for the rest of that day. On the next day at mid-day, the herald of the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, summoned us and we gathered 
before him. There was a man sitting with him. He said: “This man came to me 
while I was sleeping. He drew my sword and said: ‘Muhammad, who can save 
you from me today?’ I told him: ‘Allah will save me from you.’ Then he sheathed 
the sword and has remained sitting here without moving as you see.” 


“Apostle of Allah, perhaps something has disturbed his reason,” we suggested. 
“Yes,” said the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, “leave 
him.” 

Then he turned away and did not pay any attention to him. 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, besieged Khaybar 
for more than twenty days. At that time the standard was held by the Commander 
of the Faithful, peace be on him. He was suffering from pains in his eyes which 
kept him from the battle (for a time). The Muslims used to attack the Jews in 
front of their forts and at the sides. One day they overcame the gate but they had 


27 In parts it follows Ibn Hisham’s account (Sira, 567-62) very closely but it omits large portions 
that do not concern ‘Alt and elaborates those that do. According to Ibn Hisham Marhab is killed 
by Muhammad b. Maslama. The account of the gate is given in several versions, but according 
to Ibn Hisham’s version it was seven men who could not lift it. 


82 


dug a trench around themselves. Marhab came out on foot to oppose them in 
battle. 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, summoned Abt 
Bakr and said to him: “Take the standard.” 

He took it with a number of the Emigrants and they fought without achieving 
anything. He returned vigorously denouncing the people who had followed him 
while they were just as vigorously blaming him. 


The next day he gave it to ‘Umar. The latter went a little way with it and then 
came back accusing his followers of cowardice while they were also accusing 
him of cowardice. 


Then the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “This standard is 
not for anyone to carry whom they can accuse of cowardice to me. It is for ‘Alt 
b. Abi Talib.” 

“He has bad eyes,” he was told. 

“Show him to me and you will show me a man who loves Allah and His Apostle 
and whom Allah and His Apostle love. He takes things up in the right way and 
he will not flee,” he said. 


They brought ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, leading him to him. 

“What is troubling you, ‘Al1?” the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
asked him. 

“Sore eyes which prevent me from seeing and a pain in my head,” he answered. 
“Sit down,” he told him, “and put your head on my thigh.” 

“Ali, peace be on him, did that and the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, prayed for him. He spat some saliva into his hand and rubbed it on his 
eye and his head. His eyes opened and the pain in the head which he had had was 
eased. He had said in his prayer: “O Allah, make the heat and the cold obedient.” 
He gave him the standard; it was a white standard. He said: “Take the standard 
and set forth with it. Gabriel is with you. Victory is in front of you and terror 
is spread into the hearts of the enemy. Be aware, ‘Alt, that they have found in 
their Book that the name of the one who will destroy them is Iliya. When you 
meet them, say: I am ‘Ali, then they will forsake (the field) if Allah, the Exalted, 
wishes.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, reported: I set out with it until 
I came to the fortress. Marhab came out. He was wearing a helmet in which a 
stone had made a hole showing the white of his head. He was reciting: 

Khaybar knows that I am Marhab - the carrier of arms, a hero who has 


83 


been tested. 


I answered: 
I am he whom my mother called a lion. 
Like a lion of the forests, fierce in strength, 
With my sword I will make you weigh the weight of an ear torn off. 


We exchanged blows. I came quickly against him and struck him. I cut through 
(the place where) the hole (was) in the helmet and through his head so that my 
sword reached his teeth. He fell dead. 


In the account it is reported that when the Commander of the Faithful said: “I am 
‘Alt b. Abt Talib,” one of the rabbis of the people called out to them: “I swear 
by what was revealed to Moses that you are defeated.” As a result such terror 
entered their hearts that they were not able to bear it. 


When the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, killed Marhab, those who 
had gone out with Marhab withdrew and barred the gate of the fortress to keep 
him out. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, advanced against it. 
He worked on it until he opened it. However, most of the people from the other 
side of the trench did not come across against him. Thus did the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, capture the gate of the fortress. Then he used it as 
a bridge across the trench so that they might go across and conquer the fortress. 
They seized booty. When they withdrew from the fortress the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, took the gate in his right hand and spread it out many 
metres over the ground. It used to take twenty men to lock that gate. 


After the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, had brought about the 
conquest of the fortress and had killed Marhab and Allah had granted their 
property as booty to the Muslims, Hassan b. Thabit al-Ansari sought permission 
from the Apostle of Allah to recite a poem about him. 
He told him: “Recite it.” 
He recited: 
‘Ali was ashen-eyed, needing medicine, even then he did not find (the help 
of anyone) to nurse him. 


The Apostle of Allah healed him with saliva. He blessed the healer (raqi) 
and He blessed the healed. 


He said: I will give the standard today, to a dauntless man, brave, one who 
loves the Apostle as a follower. 


84 


He loves Allah and Allah loves him. Through him Allah will overcome the 
fortress, returning it to Allah. 


He distinguished ‘Ali by that apart from all other creatures and he named 
him his helper and his brother. 


[The traditionists have reported on the authority of al-Hasan b. Salih, on the 
authority of al-A‘mash, on the authority of Abi Ishaq, on the authority of Abt 
‘Abd Allah al-Judalt, who said:] 

I heard the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, say: “When I broke 
down the gate of Khaybar, I used it as a shield and I fought against them with it. 
When Allah brought about their humiliation and I had made the gate a means of 
overcoming their fort, I threw it into their trench.” 

A man asked him: “How were you able to bear the weight of it?” 

“Tt was only like my shield which was in my hands on other occasions,” he 
answered. 


The biographers of the Prophet (ashab al-siyar) report that when the Muslims 
left Khaybar, they tried to carry the gate. It could only be lifted by seventy men. 
Concerning the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, carrying the gate, 
the poet says: 
Indeed a man who carried a huge gate at Khaybar in the campaign against 
the Jews was supported by great power. 


He carried the great gate, a gate which was the door to the restless hearts, 
while the Muslims and the people of Khaybar were mustered. 


He threw it down and it took seventy men to undertake the burden of 
picking it up again - all of these exerting themselves fully to do it. 


At last they picked it up with much effort and difficulty and urging of one 
another to pick it up again. 


One of the Shi‘a poets also spoke of this, praising the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, and disparaging his enemies, as has been reported by 
Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad b. Jamhir, who said: I recited this to 
Abi ‘Uthman al-Mazini: 
The Prophet sent with his victorious standard ‘Umar b. Hantama, the 
blackest of black. He went forward with it until they came out against him. 


Without spirit, he bent, he was filled with fear and he withdrew. He brought 


85 


back to the Prophet a standard which he had refused (to take forward). 
He did not fear the shame of it and the blameworthiness of it. 
The Prophet wept for him and criticised him for it. 


Then he called for a man, noble of vision, who would go forward. He 
advanced with it amid a group of men, while (the Prophet) prayed for him. 


Surely he would not shun it nor be defeated? He brought the Jews to a sad 
state of withdrawal when he slaughtered. 


The leader of their army, a man with a sharp sword, who struck out 
fiercely. Then he turned to (the rest of) the people after that and scattered 
them. 


The flies flee and every eagle is a lion. Allah oppressed them because of 
His love for the family of Muhammad 


And because of His love of those who support (the family) by shedding 
blood. 


THE CONQUEST OF MECCA 


The campaign against Khaybar was followed by situations which were not the 
same as those which had occurred before. We now (briefly) allude to them. The 
majority of these consisted of missions which the Prophet did not take part in. 
Nor was their importance the same as it had been before. This was due to the 
present weakness of the enemy and that some of the Muslims did not need the 
others. We have passed over the enumeration of these matters even though the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, played a great role both in word 
and deed in all of these events. 


Then followed the conquest of Mecca. By it the situation of Islam was 
strengthened and the religion became powerful by virtue of what Allah, may 
He be exalted, (had bestowed) on His Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. Through it the promise was fulfilled, which Allah had earlier given in 
His words, may He be exalted: When the help of Allah and the conquest comes, 
you will see the people enter into the religion of Allah in group after group (CX 
1-2). And Allah, the Mighty and High, had said a long time before that: You 
will enter the sacred Mosque in safety with your heads shaven or trimmed and 


86 


without fear (XLVIII 27). 


Eyes were turned towards it and necks were stretched out (in expectancy) of it. 
Yet the Prophet of Allah organised that affair by keeping his journey to Mecca 
secret and by keeping the purpose of his intentions towards the inhabitants of 
that city hidden. Allah, the Most High, had demanded that he keep reports of it 
concealed from the Meccans so that he should surprise them when he entered 
the city. In the group to whom the secret was confided was the Commander 
of the Faithful, ‘Alt b. Abt Talib, peace be on him. He was the partner of the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, in the plan. Then the 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, spread it to a further group. The 
matter was arranged with regard to it according to circumstances, in all of which 
the Commander of the Faithful was unique in merit insofar as no other person 
participated in them to the same extent. 


Among (the indications of) that (is the incident that occurred when) Hatib b. 
Abt Balta‘a - who was from Mecca and had been present at Badr alongside the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family - wrote to the Meccans, 
informing them of the secret that the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, was coming against them. Inspiration came to the Apostle of Allah, 
informing him of what had been done and of Hatib’s letter being sent to the 
people (of Mecca). The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
restored the situation through the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. If 
the situation had not been restored by him, the organisation on whose success the 
victory of the Muslims depended, would have been put in jeopardy. A report of 


this story has already been given earlier and there is no need for us to repeat it.” 
28 2K OK 


Abi Sufyan came to Medina to renew the treaty between the Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless him and grant him peace, and Quraysh, after the incident caused 
by a group of the Bant Bakr against (the tribe of) Khuza‘a when they had killed 
some of them. Abi Sufyan intended to restore his leading position among his 
people. He was afraid of the help of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, might give to (al-Khuza‘a). Also he was afraid about what 
would happen to them (i.e. Meccans) on the day of the conquest. He came to the 
Prophet and spoke to him about it but he did not give any answer. He left him and 
met Abi Bakr and caught hold of him. He thought that he could gain his request 
from the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, through him. 

“T cannot do that,” Aba Bakr answered because he knew that his asking about 
that would achieve nothing. 


28 cf.35-37. 


87 


Then Abi Sufyan thought that ‘Umar might have the same (influence) as he had 
previously thought Abi Bakr had had. He spoke to him about it but the latter 
pushed him away with a roughness and a harshness which would almost have 
corrupted one’s view of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 


He turned aside to the house of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 
He asked permission to enter and permission was granted. With (the Commander 
of the Faithful) were Fatima, al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be on them. 


“Alt,” he said, “you are the closest of the people to me in relationship and kin 
and so Ihave come to you. Do not send me back as much without hope as I came. 
Intercede for me with the Apostle of Allah for what I came for.” 

“Woe upon you, Abi Sufyan,” he replied. “When the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, has decided on a matter, we cannot speak to 
him about it.” 


Abt Sufyan turned to Fatima, peace be on her, and said: “Daughter of Muhammad, 
can you tell your two sons to give me neighbourly protection among the people? 
For they are lords of the Arabs to the end of time.” 

“My sons have not reached the age to grant neighbourly protection among the 
people,” she answered, “and no one will grant neighbourly protection against the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family.” 


Abia Sufyan was bewildered and felt helpless. Then he went up to the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and said: “Abi al-Hasan, I see that 
matters have become confused as far as I am concerned. (Please,) advise me.” 
“T cannot see anything which will avail you,” the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, told him. “However, you are the leader of the Bant Kinana. 
Therefore arise and grant protection among the people. Then go back to your 
land.” 

“Do you think that will help me at all?” he asked. 

“No, by Allah, I do not think so,” he answered. “Yet, I can find nothing else.” 


So Abi Sufyan went and stood in the mosque and called out: “J have come to 
grant protection among the people.” 


Then he mounted his camel and departed. When he came back to Quraysh, they 
asked him: “What (was the situation you left) behind you?” 

“T went to Muhammad, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and I spoke to 
him,” he told them. “But he gave me no answer. Then I went to Ibn Abi Quhafa 
(Abi Bakr) and I found nothing better from him. Then I met Ibn al-Khattab and I 


88 


found him harsh and rough without any kindness in him. Then I went to ‘Ali and 
I found him the gentlest of men to me. He advised me to do something, which I 
did. By Allah, I do not know whether it will be of any avail to me or not.” 
“What did he tell you to do?” they asked. 

“He told me to grant protection among the people and I did so,” he answered. 
“Did Muhammad permit that?” they asked. 

“No,” he replied. 

“By Allah, the man did no more than play with you,” they told him. “It will not 
be of any use to you.” 

“No, by Allah, but I could not find anyone else (to suggest anything),” he 
answered.” 


The attitude of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, towards Abu 
Sufyan was the most correct in terms of the fulfilment of the Muslims’ task and 
for the (success) of the plan. Thus he (Abt Sufyan) brought about for the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, something, in the attitude of the 
people, which he would not have been able to achieve, if he had not been able 
to demonstrate that ‘Ali had given Abi Sufyan the truth about his position. Also 
he achieved this because of his gentleness towards him, so that when he left 
Medina, he thought that there was some (hope for him). Thus through his 
departure in those circumstances he ceased from attempting to make a plot by 
which he might have thrown some disorder into the plan of the Prophet, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family. For, if he had left in despair in the way the 
two men (1.e. Abi Bakr and ‘Umar) had filled him with despair, he would have 
renewed the people’s view of fighting against (the Prophet), peace be on him, 
and of guarding against him in a way which did not occur to them, after Abu 
Sufyan brought (news of) what he had done to them. For he had stayed in 
Medina to intrigue to gain his purpose of seeking intercession with the Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family. In that way, he had intended to bring about 
a situation which would keep the Prophet away from Quraysh and by delaying 
him from them, (the Prophet) would have missed his opportunity. The success 
which was brought about through Allah, the Most High, was connected with the 
vision of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, insofar as he saw by 
dealing with Abt Sufyan he would enable the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and 


His Family, to occupy Mecca as the latter had intended. 
OK 2 2 2 


When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, ordered Sa‘d b. 
‘Ubada to enter Mecca carrying the standard, he became aggressive towards the 
people and showed the anger he felt against them. He entered Mecca shouting: 


29 This account follows al-Tabart, I, 1623-4 and Ibn Hisham, Sira, 807-808. 


89 


“Today is the day of slaughter, the day of capturing any daughter.” 


Al-‘Abbas heard him and asked the Prophet: “Haven’t you heard what Sa‘d b. 
‘Ubada is saying? I am afraid that he will attack Quraysh fiercely.” 

“All,” said the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, to the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, “go to Sa‘d and take the standard 
away from him. You be the one who enters Mecca with it.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, went up to him and took 
it from him. Sa‘d did not stop him from taking it from him.*° The loss in this 
matter which would have been caused by Sa‘d, was restored by (the action of) 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. The Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, did not regard any of the Emigrants or Ansar 
as suitable to take away the standard from the leader of the Ansar except the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. He knew that if anyone else had 
wanted to do that, Sa‘d would have refused him, and in his refusal there would 
have been caused a disruption of the plan and a dispute between the Ansar and 
the Emigrants. Since Sa‘d would not have lowered his position for any of the 
Muslims or for all the people except the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, and since it would not be sound judgement for the Apostle of Allah to 
take the standard from (Sa‘d) himself, he appointed someone who could really 
take his place and could not be distinguished from him (the Prophet), someone 
to whom no one else within the group should be shown greater obedience. There 
was no one else characterised by rank and merit for this except the Commander 
of the Faithful, peace be on him. In such a quality no one else had a share nor 
was anyone else his equal. It was a lesson from Allah, the Most High, and His 
Apostle, with regard to the attainment of public interest through the despatch 
of the Commander of the Faithful, apart from anyone else, which indicated his 
choice for decisive affairs, just as it was a lesson from Allah with regard to whom 
He chose for prophethood and the fulfilment of the public good by sending him. 
This revealed their (i.e. the Prophet and the Commander of the Faithful) being 


the best of all creatures. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, gave an instruction 
to the Muslims on setting out for Mecca that they should only kill those who 
fought against them. He guaranteed the security of those who clung to the veils 
of the Ka‘ba except a group of them who had committed evil actions against 
him. Among these were Miqyas b. Subaba, Ibn Khatal, Ibn Abi Sarh and two 
songstresses who had sung insulting songs about the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 


30 Cf.37-38. 


90 


bless him an his family, and lamentations for the Meccans killed at Badr. The 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, killed one of the songstresses and 
the other fled until refuge was found for her. A Persian struck her in al-Abtah 
during the rule (imara) of ‘Umar b. al-Khattab and killed her. The Commander 
of the Faithful, peace be on him, also killed al-Huwayrith b. Nufayl b. Ka‘b. He 
was one of those who had abused the Apostle of Allah at Mecca.*! He, peace be 
on him, learnt that his sister, Umm Hani’, had given refuge to some people from 
Banu Makhzim, including al-Harith b. Hisham and Qays b. al-Sa’ib. He, peace 
be on him, set out for her house wearing an iron helmet. He called: “Send out 
those to whom you have given refuge.” 


By Allah, they began to act out of fear of him just like birds who let their 
droppings fall (from the sky). Umm Hani’ came out to him and she did not 
recognize him. 


“Servant of Allah,” she said, “IJ am Umm Hani’, a cousin of the Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family. I am the sister of ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace 
be on him. Therefore go away from my house.” 


“Bring them out,” demanded the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 
“By Allah, I will complain about you to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family,” she told him. 


Then he took his helmet off his head. She recognized him and she came close to 
him so that she might embrace him. 

“May I be your ransom,” she said, “I swore that I would complain about you to 
the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family.” 

“Go and make good your oath,” he told her. “He is at the top of the valley.” 


Umm Hani’ reported: I went to the Prophet while he was in his tent washing. 
Fatima, peace be on her, was keeping him veiled (from view). When the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, heard the sound of my voice, he 
said: “Welcome to Umm Hani’.” 


“By my father and mother (whom I would ransom for) you,” I said, “I have 
come to complain to you of the treatment I have received today from ‘Alt b. Abi 
Talib.” 

“Have you given neighbourly protection to those to whom you (are reported to) 
have given neighbourly protection?” the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, asked. 


31 Ibn Hisham, Sira, 820. 


91 


Then Fatima, peace be on her, said: “You have only come to complain of ‘Ali 
because he caused the enemies of Allah and of His Apostle to be afraid.” 


“May Allah, the Most High, be thanked for the efforts of ‘Alt b. Abi Talib,” said 
the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. “I grant neighbourly 
protection to those whom Umm Hani’ gave neighbourly protection because of 
her position through (her brother) ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him.” 


When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, entered the 
(Sacred) Mosque, he found there three hundred and sixty idols. Some of them 
were attached to others by lead. 


“Give me a handful of pebbles,” he said to the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him. 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, picked up a handful and gave 
it to him. Then he threw it at them, saying: “Say. Truth has come and falsehood 
has disappeared. Indeed falsehood was ever disappearing.” (XVII 81). 

Every idol fell face downwards. Then he ordered them to be taken out, thrown 
down and broken. 


In the actions of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, which we 
have mentioned concerning the enemies of Allah he killed in Mecca, the fear he 
caused to those who had been traitors and the help which he gave to the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, in cleansing the (Sacred) Mosque 
of idols, his great bravery and his ignoring of kinship in obedience to Allah, the 
Mighty and High, - all this - is evidence for him being characterised by great 


merit which no one else shared as we have already said. 
OK 2 2K 


In connection with the conquest of Mecca is the despatch of Khalid b. al-Walid 
by the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, to the Bani 
Hudhayfa b. ‘Amir. They were at al-Ghumaysa’. He was supposed to summon 
them to Allah, the Mighty and High. He only sent him because of the hostile 
connection which existed between him and them. In the Jahiliyya, they had seized 
some women from the Bani al-Mughira and killed al-Fakih b. al-Mughira, the 
uncle of Khalid b. al-Walid, and they had also killed ‘Awf b. ‘Abd al-Rahman 
b. ‘Awf. It was for that reason that the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, had sent him. He also sent with him ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Awf, 
who had a similar hostile relationship with them. If it had not been for that, the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, would not have deemed 


32 Ibn Hisham, Sira, 820. 


92 


Khalid appropriate for command over the Muslims. We have already mentioned 
matters connected with him insofar as he had opposed the covenant of Allah and 
the covenant of His Apostle and he had worked in the service of the practice of 
the Jahiliyya; he had put the authority of Islam behind him; he had renounced the 
Apostle of Allah through his action and losses caused by him had to be restored 
by the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. We have explained all this 
earlier, so that there is no need to repeat it here. 


THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST HUNAYN 


Then there was the campaign against Hunayn when the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, sought for help, because of the great number of 
those gathered against him. (The Prophet), peace be on him, went out towards 
the enemy with ten thousand Muslims. The majority of them thought that they 
would be victorious when they saw their gathering, their great numbers and their 
weapons. On that day, Abii Bakr was full of wonder at the great number. He said: 
“Today we will never be defeated as a result of being few in number.”* 


As it happened the affair turned out the very opposite to what they had thought 
and Abu Bakr had contributed to this by his wonder at their (great number). 
However, when they met the polytheists, it was not long before they (the 
polytheists) put them all to flight so that only ten men remained with the Prophet, 
nine of them were Hashimites and the tenth was Ayman b. Umm Ayman. Ayman 
was killed, may Allah have mercy on him. Eventually those who had fled began 
to return to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. They 
returned one by one until they joined one another and there were (sufficient for) 
an attack on the polytheists. Concerning Abt Bakr’s wonder at the great number, 
Allah, the Most High, revealed: At the Battle of Hunayn when your great number 
pleased you, it did not avail you in any way. The earth became too narrow for 
you (to escape) to the same extent (as before) it had been too wide for you. You 
turned your backs and fled. Then Allah sent down calm (fortitude) on His Apostle 
and the Faithful (IX 25-26). He means by “the Faithful”, the Commander of the 
Faithful, ‘Alt, peace be on him, and those of the Banat Hashim who remained 
with him. On that day they were eight, and with the Commander of the Faithful 
they were nine. Al-‘Abbas b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib was on the right of the Apostle of 
Allah, al-Fadl b. al-‘Abbas was on his left. Abt Sufyan b. al-Harith was holding 
his saddle at the rear of his mule, while the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, stood before him with his sword. Nawfal b. al Harith, Rabi‘a b. 
al-Harith, ‘Abd Allah b. al-Zubayr b. ‘Abd al Muttalib and ‘Utba and Ma‘tib 
the two sons of Abii Lahab stood around him. All the rest, save those we have 


33 al-Waqidt, al-Maghazi, 111, 890. 


93 


mentioned, turned their backs in flight.** Concerning this Malik b. ‘Ubada al- 
Ghafiqi recited: 
None consoled the Prophet except the sons of Hashim in the face of the 
swords of the battle at Hunayn. 


The people fled, save for this group of nine. They were calling to the 
people: Where are you? 


Then they stood with the Prophet to face death. They denied us any 
ornament except shame. 


Ayman guarded the trusty one (i.e. Muhammad) from the people (and 
died) a martyr, and thus gained (eternal) happiness as a reward. 


Al-‘Abbas b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib recited concerning this situation: 
We, nine, helped the Apostle of Allah in the battle. The rest who could flee 
fled and scattered. 


Whenever al-Fadl attacked with his sword against the people, my words 
(were): 
“Again my son, lest they return” 


The nine of us faced death itself because of what is given in the service 
of Allah causes no (real) suffering. 


(In the first poem) there is a reference to Ayman b. Umm Ayman, may Allah have 
mercy upon him. 


When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, saw the flight 
of the people from him, he said to al-‘ Abbas, who was a man with a loud strong 
voice: “Call to the people and remind them of the covenant.” 


Al-‘Abbas called out at the top of his voice: “People who made the pledge of 
allegiance at the tree, men of Surat al-Baqara, where are you fleeing? Remember 
the covenant which you made to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family.” 


However, the people went on and turned their backs (in flight). It was a pitch 
black night and the Apostle of Allah was in the valley. The polytheists came 


34 Ibn Hisham, Sira, 845, and al-Waqidi, al-Maghazi, IH, 900 both include Abu Bakr and ‘Umar 
in the group who remained with the Prophet. 


94 


against him from the mountain passes into the valley, and from the sides of the 
valley, and its narrow defiles, with their swords drawn, and with clubs and stones. 


[They reported:] The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, looked toward the people (turning) part of his face (towards them) in the 
darkness. And he gave light as if he was the moon on the night of the full-moon. 
Then he called out to the Muslims: “Where are you who gave your pledge to 
Allah (to protect) him?” 


The first heard and then others of them. Not a man of them heard but did not fling 
himself to the ground and crawl down to where they were in the valley. When 
they met the enemy, they fought against them. 


[They reported:] One of the Hawazin approached in front of the people on a red 
camel with a black standard in his hand fixed on a long spear.*> Whenever he 
gained a victory over the Muslims, he would turn them face downward. If any of 
the people escaped him, he would pass him on to the polytheists behind him and 
they would follow him. 
He was reciting: 
I am Abt Jarwal, there will be no ceasing today until we destroy or are 
destroyed. 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, directed himself towards him. 
He struck the buttocks of his camel and brought it down. Then he struck him and 
overcame him. He recited: 
Now the people know with whom the morrow belonged. In battle Iam one 
who brings disgrace (to others). 


The flight of the polytheists began with the killing of Abu Jarwal, may Allah 
curse him. Then the Muslims felt rebuked and formed ranks against the enemy. 
The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “O Allah, you 
have made the first of Quraysh taste defeat, give the last of them pleasure (of 
victory).” 


The Muslims and the polytheists began to fight together. When the Prophet, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, saw them, he put his saddle on my mount so 
that he might have a view of their group. Then he said: 
Now war has been kindled. I am the Prophet, that is no lie. I am the 
descendant of ‘Abd al-Muttalib. 


35 al-Waqidi, al-Maghdazi, I, 902, gives a briefer account and involves Abi Dujana with ‘Ali in 
the killing. 


95 


It was very soon after that the (enemy) turned their backs (in flight). The 
prisoners were brought in bonds to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family. 


When the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, killed Abt Jarwal and 
the people shrank away because of him being killed, the Muslims began to ply 
them with their swords. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, led 
them in this so that he killed forty men from these people. Thus was the defeat 


and the capturing of prisoners brought about at that time. 
OK 2 2 2 


Abi Sufyan Sakhr b. Harb b. Umayya took part in this campaign. He was among 
the number of those of the Muslims who had fled (at first). 


[It is reported on the authority of Mu‘awiya b. Abi Sufyan that he said:] I met 
my father fleeing with the Meccans of the Bant Umayya. I yelled out to him: 
“Son of Harb, by Allah, won’t you endure with fortitude alongside your cousin? 
You have not fought for your religion nor have you faced these bedouin Arabs in 
order to protect your womenfolk.” 

“Who are you?” he asked. 

“Mu‘awiya,” I answered. 

“The son of Hind?” he said. 

“Yes,” I replied. 

“May I ransom you with my father and mother,” he exclaimed. 


Then he stopped and the Meccans gathered with him. I joined them. Then we 
attacked the people and scattered them. The Muslims continued to fight the 
polytheists and take them prisoner until day began to break. Then the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, ordered that none of the people 


taken prisoner was to be killed. 
OK 2 2 2 


During the days of the conquest (of Mecca) the tribe of Hudhayl had sent a man 
called Ibn al-Anza‘ to spy on the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
so that he would gain information about him. He had gone back to Hudhay] with 
his report. At the battle of Hunayn, he was captured. ‘Umar b. al-Khattab passed 
by him. When he saw him, he went up to one of the Ansar and said: “This is the 
enemy of Allah, who came to us as a spy. Here he is a prisoner. Kill him.” 


The man from the Ansar cut off his head. When the Prophet learnt of that, he 
disliked it and said: “Didn’t I order you not to kill prisoners? Yet after that you 


96 


killed Jamil b. Mu‘ammar b. Zuhayr while he was a prisoner.” 


Then the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, sent to the Ansar while 
he was still angry. He demanded: “What prompted you to kill him when the 
messenger had come to you (telling you) not to kill any prisoners?” 

“We only killed him at the behest of ‘Umar,” they answered. 


The Apostle of Allah turned away (from them) until ‘Umayr b. Wahb spoke to 


him about forgiving (them). 
ok 2 2 2 


The Prophet of Allah made the distribution of the booty of Hunayn, particularly 
among the Quraysh. He gave a generous share to reconcile the hearts of some 
of them like Abt Sufyan Sakhr b. Harb, ‘Ikrima b. Abi Jahl, Safwan b. Umayya, 
al-Harith b. Hisham, Suhayl b. ‘Amr, Zuhayr b. Abt Umayya, ‘Abd Allah b. Abi 
Umayya, Mu‘awiya b. Abi Sufyan, Hisham b. al-Mughira, al-Agqra‘ b. Habis, 
“‘Uyayna b. Hisn and their like. 


It is reported that he gave the Ansar only a small part but that he gave most of 
it to the people whom we have named. A group of the Ansar became angry on 
account of that. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was 
informed of their words of discontent against him. He summoned them and they 
gathered. He told them: “Sit down but do not let anyone other than your own 
people sit with you.” 


When they were seated the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, came 
out and the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, followed him. He sat 
down in their midst and said to them: “J will ask you about a matter and then you 
answer me about it”. 

“Speak, Apostle of Allah,” they said. 


“Were you not going astray and then Allah sent you guidance through me?” he 
asked. 
“Indeed”, they answered, “the grace for that belongs to Allah and His Apostle.” 


“Were you not on the edge of the pit of Hell-fire and then Allah rescued you 
through me?” he asked. 
“Indeed”, they answered, “the grace for that belongs to Allah and His Apostle.” 


“Were you not few and then Allah made you many through me?” he asked. 
“Indeed”, they answered, “the grace for that belongs to Allah and His Apostle.” 


97 


“Were you not enemies (of each other) and then Allah reconciled your hearts 
through me?” he asked. 
“Indeed”, they answered, “the grace for that belongs to Allah and His Apostle.” 


The Prophet fell silent for a short time and then he said: “Will you answer me 
according to what is in your minds?” 

“How else can we answer you?” they said. “Indeed it is our fathers and mothers 
(who have required) that we answer you by saying that you have outstanding 
merit, favour and stature over us.” 


“Tf you had wanted,” he said, “you could have said: You came to us an exile and 
we gave you refuge. You came to us in fear (of your life) and we protected you. 
You came to us denounced as a liar and we believed in you.” 


They raised their voices in weeping. Their shaykhs and leaders stood up before 
him and kissed his hands and feet. Then they said: 

“We are satisfied with Allah and His Apostle. Here is our wealth (placed) before 
you. If you wish, divide it among your people. Those of us who spoke earlier 
(against you), only spoke out of jealousy, deception in the breast and sin in the 
heart. They had thought that (your action) was taken in anger against them and 
to reduce them. They seek forgiveness from Allah for their sins. O Apostle of 
Allah, forgive them.” 


Then the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “O Allah, grant 
forgiveness to the Ansar and the sons of the Ansar, and the sons of the sons of the 
Ansar. People of the Ansar, are you not content that no one except you will return 
with grace and favour? For when you return (part of) your share (of the rewards 
of battle) will be (the presence of) the Apostle of Allah (in your city).” 
“Indeed,” they replied, “we are content.” 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “On that day the Ansar 
were my close supporters and my family. If the people had gone along the 
valley and the Ansar had gone along a mountain pass, I would have gone along 
the mountain pass of the Ansar. O Allah, grant forgiveness to the Ansar.” 


On that day the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, had given 
al-‘Abbas b. Mirdas four camels. He was angry at this and recited: 
Do you divide my share of the booty and the share of al-‘Ubayd between 
“‘Uyayna and al-Aqra‘? 
At any gathering (of people) neither Hisn nor Habis would take 


98 


precedence over my leader. 


I am no less a man than those two. Whoever you put down today will not 
be raised. 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, learned of what he had said 
and summoned him to attend him. 

“You are the one who spoke these words: Do you divide my share of the booty 
and the share of al-‘Ubayd between al-Aqra‘ and ‘Uyayna,” he said. 


“No, may my father and mother be a ransom for you, you are not the poet,” 
interrupted Abi Bakr. 

“How is that?” he asked. 

“Rather he said between ‘Uyayna and al-Aqra‘,” he replied. 

“Arise, ‘Alj,” the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, told the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, “and cut out his tongue for (what) 
it said.” 


“By Allah, because of these words you are harsher with me than at the battle with 
Khath‘am when they came against us in our houses,” al-‘Abbas b. Mirdas cried 
out. He caught hold of the hands of ‘Alt b. Abt Talib (and said): “Take me away. 
If I knew anyone who would free me from this, I would summon him. So I say 
to you, ‘Ali, will you be the one who cuts out my tongue?” 

“T will only carry out with you what I have been ordered to do,” he said. 


Al-‘Abbas reported: He set off and remained with me until he brought me to the 
enclosures. He told me: “Count out the numbers between four and a hundred.” 
I said: “May I ransom you with my father and mother. How generous, 
considerate and learned you are!” 


“The Apostle of Allah gave you four camels,” he said, “and thus made you one of 
the number of the Emigrants. If you wish, just keep them. However, if you wish, 
take a hundred and be included with the people (who were given) a hundred.” 
“Advise me,” I asked. 

“T would advise you to take what the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, has given you and be satisfied with that,” he told me. 

“Then I will do so,” I said.*® 


When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, had 


36 Ibn Hisham, Sira, 881-3, al-Waqidi, al-Maghdzi, 946-7, without the part ‘Ali played in the 
affair. 


99 


distributed the booty at Hunayn, a tall man with a lump of skin between his eyes, as 
aresult of much prostration approached him. He greeted him without any specific 
reference to the Prophet. Then he said: “I have seen what you have done with 
this booty.” 

“How do you see it?” he asked. 

“T consider that you have gone astray,” he said. 


At this, the Apostle of Allah became angry and said: “Shame on you, since I have 
no injustice, who has it?” 

“Shall we not kill him?” the Muslims asked. 

“Leave him,” he said. “He will have followers who will dart from this religion 
like the arrow darts from the bow. Allah will bring about their death at the hand 
of the man most loved by Him after me.”*’ 


The Commander of the Faithful, ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, killed him 
among the Khawarij he killed at the battle of al-Nahrawan. 


Consideration should be given to the qualities displayed by the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, in this campaign. If you ponder them and think 
about their implications, you will find that he, peace be on him, carried out every 
outstanding action which took place in it. Thus he is uniquely characterised by 
qualities which nobody else in the community (umma) shares. It was he, peace 
be on him, who stayed with the Apostle of Allah when all the rest of the people 
fled except the small group who remained alongside him, peace be on him. 
We already have thorough knowledge of his precedence in courage, bravery, 
fortitude and vigour over al-‘Abbas and al-Fadl, his son, and Abi Sufyan b. al- 
Harith and the rest of the group. (We have this) by the example of his actions on 
other occasions at which none of them were present. Reports of him are famous 
concerning his battle with men of equal rank and his killing of heroes. None of 
these has been known for anything similar to his exploits. No death of an enemy 
(in battle) is traced back to them by any famous report. Thus it can be realised 
that their remaining steadfast was through him, peace be on him. If it had not 
been for him, a crime would have been committed against religion which would 
not have been set right. By his taking up that attitude and his endurance with the 
Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, the return of the Muslims to 
the battle was made possible and their encouragement to attack the enemy. His 
killing Abi Jarwal, the foremost of the polytheists, was the reason for the defeat 
of the people and the victory of the Muslims. Through the killing by him, peace 
be on him, of the forty whom he killed, weakness came upon the polytheists and 
thus he was the cause of the their desertion and anxiety, and the victory of the 
Muslims. 

37 Ibn Hisham, Sira, 884-5. 


100 


(The Muslims’ flight) was contributed to by the lack of judgement of this man 
(when he caused them to be overconfident) through expressing wonder at their 
great numbers. (It was this man) who preceded ‘AIt to the rank of the caliphate 
(khilafa) after the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. Thus 
he was the cause of their initial defeat, or at least one of the causes. Then it was 
his colleague who caused prisoners of the enemy to be killed after the Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, had forbidden them to be killed. Thus he 
committed a great crime against Allah, the Exalted, and against His Apostle. (On 
the other hand, ‘Alt) was a help to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, in reconciling the Ansar, by gathering them together and speaking to 
them. Religion was strengthened by him and by him was removed fear of discord 
which overshadowed the people because of the distribution of the booty. Thus he 
shared with the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, in that 
merit which no one else participated in. In the matter of al-‘Abbas b. Mirdas, 
he carried it out in such a way that he was the cause of the strengthening of 
faith in his heart and the removal of doubts about religion from his soul and his 
accepting of His Apostle, peace be on him, by obeying his command and being 
content with his judgement. Then the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, made him the one who would carry out the judgement on the 
man who protested against his decision, as a sign of the right of the Commander 
of the Faithful, peace be on him, in his actions, and in the correctness in his 
fighting. He called attention to the duty of obedience (to ‘Alt) and warned against 
disobedience (to him). Indeed truth was in his heart and loins and he testified to 
it by being the best of creatures. This is in contrast to the actions carried out by 
his rivals who usurped his position. It shows the contradictory nature of their 
actions and excludes them from merit (leading them) to a low position which 
would cause such a man to perish, or would almost (cause it). This is apart from 
the greatness (of ‘Alt’s actions which are above) the actions of even those loyal 
men in that campaign and their closeness in the battle which they fought in. By 
this they are excluded from the praise which we have given to him by virtue of 
their deficiency which we have described. 


EXPEDITIONS TO AWTAS AND AL-TA’IF 


When Allah, the Exalted, had scattered the gathering of the polytheists at 
Hunayn, they separated into two groups. The Bedouin and those who followed 
them went to Awtas while Thaqif and those who followed them went to al-Ta’if. 
The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, sent Abi ‘Amir al-Ash‘ari to 
Awtas with a group of men which included Abt Misa al-Ash‘ari. He sent Abi 
Sufyan Sakhr b. Harb to al-Ta’if. 


101 


Abi ‘Amir went forward carrying the standard and fought until he was killed 
protecting it. The Muslims said to Abi Musa: “You are the cousin of the 
commander and he has been killed. So take up the standard so that we might fight 
before it.” 


Abi Musa took it up and he and the Muslims fought until Allah gave them 
victory. 


Abi Sufyan, on the other hand, came against Thaqif and they made a direct 
attack on him. He was put to flight and he returned to the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. He said: ““You sent me with men who would not even 
have been able to lift the buckets of Hudhayl and the Bedouin. They were of no 
use to me.” 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, turned away from him in 
silence. Then he went, himself, to al-Ta’if and laid siege to it. He sent out the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, with some horsemen. He ordered 
him to plunder everything he found and to destroy every idol he found. 


He went forward until the horsemen of Khath‘am met him amid a great group. 
One of their men called Shihab came forward in the darkness just before dawn. 
He called: “Is there anyone who will fight me in single combat?” 

“Which (of you) will be for him?” the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him, asked them. 

No one rose. So the Commander of the Faithful rose to go against him. Then 
Abi al-‘As b. al-Rabi‘ jumped up and said: “You will be too much for him, 
Commander of the Faithful.” 

“Indeed,” he replied, “but if I am killed, you take command over the men.” 


The Commander of the Faithful went forward against him while reciting: 
Duty is required of every leader that he water the straight lance (with 
blood) or it is broken. 


Then he struck him down and killed him. He went along with those horsemen 
until he had broken the idols. Then he returned to the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless him-and his family, while the latter was besieging the inhabitants of 
al-Ta’if. 


When the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, saw him, he magnified 
Allah for his victory. Then he took him by the hand and went aside with him and 


spent a long time in confidential talk with him. 


102 


[‘Abd al-Rahman b. Subaba and al-Ajlah both report on the authority of Abi al- 
Zubayr, on the authority of Jabir b.‘Abd Allah al-Ansart:] 

When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, had been 
alone with ‘Ali, peace be on him, on the campaign against al-Ta’if, ‘Umar b. 
al-Khattab came to him and said: “Why do you take him aside and speak to him 
alone, apart from us?” 


“Umar,” he replied, “I have not made him my confidant. Rather Allah has made 
him His confidant.” 


‘Umar opposed him, saying: “This is just the same as you said to us before al- 
Hudaybiyya that we would enter the Sacred Mosque safely if Allah wished it. 
Then we did not enter it and we were turned away from it.” 


“T did not tell you that you would enter it in that year,” the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, shouted at him. 


Later Nafi‘ b. Ghaylan b. Ma‘tib came out from the fortress of al-Ta’if with 
some horsemen from Thaqif. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
met him at Batn Wajj. There he killed him and the polytheists were put to flight. 
Terror seized the people and a group of them came down to the Prophet, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, and submitted to Islam. The Prophet’s siege had 
lasted a little more than ten days. 


In this campaign Allah, may He be glorified, also characterised the Commander 
of the Faithful, peace be on him, with qualities which none of the other people 
shared. During it, the conquest was brought about at his hands; he killed those 
men of Khath‘am whom he killed apart from anyone else; there occurred the 
confidential conversation which the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, attributed to Allah, may His name be exalted. By this is clearly 
demonstrated his outstanding merit, his special consideration by Allah, the 
Exalted, by which he was separated from the rest of men. The intensity of 
his opponents’ reaction to these events indicates their awareness of his inner 
significance and Allah’s revelation of the reality of His secret communications 
with him. In that there is a lesson for those who have minds. 


THE EXPEDITION TO TABUK AND THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL’S 
DEPUTISING FOR THE PROPHET AT MEDINA 


With regard to the expedition to Tabuk, Allah, may His name be exalted, 
revealed to His Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, that he should go 


103 


there himself and summon the people to set out with him. He told him that in the 
expedition there would be no need for war and there would be no fighting against 
the enemy since these matters would come to him without the sword. It was a 
device by which to test and try his Companions’ (willingness) to set out, so that 
in that way they could be distinguished and their secret feelings revealed to him. 
The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, summoned them to set out 
for the lands of the Byzantine (Empire). However, their fruit had ripened and the 
heat was oppressive for them. Most of them were slow in obeying him out of a 
desire for delay, out of greed for their own livelihoods and their improvement, 
and out of fear of intense heat, of the extent of the distance and of meeting the 
enemy. But some of them, despite finding it burdensome, arose to set out while 
others lingered behind. 


When the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was ready to go out, he 
appointed the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, as his deputy over 
his family, his children and his place of emigration. He told him: “‘Alt, Medina 
will only be properly looked after by myself or by you.” 


He said that because he, peace be on him, knew the wicked intentions of the 
Bedouin and many of the Meccans, and those around them whom he had 
attacked and whose blood he had shed. He was concerned that they would 
seek (to control) Medina when he was away from it and occupied in Byzantine 
territory. Since there was no one to take his place there, there would be no safety 
from their treachery, from the corruption they would cause in (Medina) the place 
of emigration, and from their overreaching themselves to actions which would 
hurt his family and his successors. He, peace be on him, knew that no one could 
take his place in terrifying the enemy, guarding the place of emigration and 
protecting those who were there except the Commander of the Faithful. Thus he 
clearly appointed him as his deputy, and gave an explicit nomination of him to 
the Imamate after him. 


This is indicated by the account that has made clear that when the Hypocrites 
learnt that the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, had 
appointed ‘Ali, peace be on him, as his deputy over Medina, they were envious 
of him because of that. After (the Prophet’s) departure, (‘Ali’s) position there 
began to distress them; for they knew that (the city) would be protected and that 
there would be no opportunity for a man with hostile or covetous intent. That 
grieved them and they would have preferred (‘Ali) to leave with (the Prophet) 
because of the occurrence of corruption and confusion which they hoped for 
during the absence of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
from Medina and while it would be free of a man to guard it who would cause 


104 


terror and fear. Therefore they accused him of (seeking) luxury and ease 
by remaining with the people while those of them who had departed were 
undergoing hardships, through journeying and (risking) danger. They spread 
rumours about him, peace be on him, and said: “The Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, did not appoint him as deputy as an act of 
honour, privilege and love. He only left him behind because of his finding him 
burdensome.” 


With this rumour they slandered him like Quraysh had slandered the Prophet by 
(attributing to him) madness sometimes, and poetry at other times, by (accusing 
him of) magic at times and of being a pagan soothsayer at others. They knew that 
(the facts) were opposite and contrary to that, just as the Hypocrites knew that 
(the facts) were opposite and contrary to the slanders they were spreading against 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. The Prophet had specifically 
recommended the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, to the people. 
He was the most lovable of the people to him, the happiest of them in his view, 
the most favoured by him, and the closest to him. 


When the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, learned of the rumours 
spread by the Hypocrites against him, he wanted to show them to be liars and to 
reveal their shameful action. So he followed the Prophet, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, and told him: “Apostle of Allah, the hypocrites are alleging that 
you left me behind because of finding (me) burdensome and because of hatred.” 


“Go back to your position, brother,” the Prophet said to him. “Medina will only 
be properly looked after by myself and by you. You are my deputy (khalifa) 
among my family (ah/ al-bayt) and in the place of my emigration and my 
people. Are you not content, ‘Alt, that you have the same rank with regard to me 
as Aaron had with regard to Moses, except that there is no prophet after me?’”*8 


This statement by the Apostle of Allah is his designation of him for the 
Imamate and his setting him apart from the rest of the people for succession 
(khilafa). Through it he indicated a merit in him which no one else shared and 
by it he required for him all the ranks which Aaron received from Moses except 
those which custom specifies to be required from (natural) brotherhood. He also 
excluded him from prophethood. Do you not see that (the Prophet), peace be 
on him, gave him all the ranks of Aaron with the only exceptions which his 
expressed word and reason would exclude? Everyone who has contemplated 


38 Ibn Hisham, Sira, 894, omits mentioning that the Prophet appointed ‘Ali as his deputy. al- 


Tabari, I, 1696, says that he actually appointed Siba‘ b. ‘Urfata as his deputy leaving ‘Ali 
responsible for his family. 


105 


the meaning of the Qur’an, who has pondered on the accounts and reports, has 
realised that Aaron was the brother of Moses, peace be on him, through his 
father and mother, his partner in his affair, and his helper in his prophethood 
and in propagating the messages from his Lord Allah, may He be praised, his 
loins were strengthened through him and he was his deputy (khalifa) over his 
people. His (authority) over them was from the Imamate; for the requirement 
of obedience to him (Moses) was like the Imamate of him (Aaron) and the 
requirement of obedience to him. He (Aaron) was the most lovable of the people 
to him (Moses) and the most meritorious of them in his view. Allah, the Mighty 
and High, has said, putting words in the mouth of Moses, peace be on him: My 
Lord, enlarge my breast for me and let my affair give joy to me. Loosen the knot 
of my tongue so that they may understand my speech. Make Aaron, my brother, 
my helper from my family. Strengthen my loins through him and make him a 
partner in my affair so that we may praise You much and mention You frequently. 
(XX 25-34). Allah, the Exalted, answered his request and gave him his request 
and desire when He said: Your request has been granted, Moses. (XX 36). And 
Allah, the Exalted, said, putting the words into the mouth of Moses: Moses said 
to his brother Aaron: Be my deputy over my people, be righteous and do not 
follow the path of the corrupters. (VII 142). 


When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, gave ‘Ali the 
same rank with regard to himself as Aaron had with regard to Moses, he required 
for him by that everything which we could mention except what custom specifies 
for natural brotherhood, and the exception of prophethood which was expressly 
stated. This is a virtue which no other creatures shares with the Commander 
of the Faithful, peace be on him. Nor does anyone else equal him in its 
significance, nor does anyone come near to it in any circumstance. If Allah, the 
Mighty and High, had known that His Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, would have any need of fighting and support on this expedition, He 
would not have allowed him to leave behind the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, as we have already mentioned. However He realised that the 
public interest (maslaha) lay in making him his deputy and that (‘Alj) taking 
his place in (Medina) the place of emigration was the best action. (Allah) had 
organised creation and religion as He had decreed concerning that and He 
brought it about as we have outlined and explained. 


(THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST ‘AMR B. MA‘DIKARIB) 
When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, returned from 


Tabuk to Medina, ‘Amr b. Ma‘dikarib came to him. The Prophet said to him: 
“Submit to Islam, ‘Amr, and then Allah will protect you from the greatest terror.” 


106 


“What is the greatest terror, Muhammad?” he asked. “For I have no fear.” 
““Amr,” he told him, “it is not as you think and suppose. Indeed there will be one 
great shout among the people. Not one person will remain who does not attend, 
nor a living person who does not die, except as Allah wishes. Then there will be 
another great shout among them and those who are dead will assemble and all 
get into ranks. The heavens will split open and the earth will be crushed. The 
mountains will be cut asunder at the crushing and the fire will hurl the mountains 
like sparks. No one who has a soul will remain except his heart be stripped bare 
while he mentions his sins and is occupied with his soul, except as Allah wishes. 
Then, where will you be, ‘Amr, at this?” 


“Indeed I am hearing of a terrible event,” said ‘Amr. 
Then he believed in Allah and His Apostle. People from his tribe also believed 
with him and then they returned to their tribe. 


“Amr b. Ma‘dikarib looked towards Ubayy d. ‘Ath‘ath al-Khath‘ami. He seized 
him by the neck and brought him to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. 

“Give me back this sinner who has killed my father,” he said. 

“Islam leaves unavenged acts committed in the Jahiliyya,” replied the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 


‘Amr departed as an apostate. He made a raid on people from the Bani al-Harith 
b. Ka‘b and went on to his own tribe. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, summoned ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him. He put him in 
charge of some of the emigrants and despatched him to the Bani Zubayd. He 
sent Khalid b. al-Walid with a group of Bedouin and ordered him to head against 
(the tribe of) Ju‘fa. When the two men (‘Ali and Khalid) met, ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, 
peace be on him, was to be the commander of the people. 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, set out. He put Khalid b. 
Sa‘id b. al-‘As in charge of his vanguard. Khalid (b. al-Walid) put Abi Misa 
al-Ash‘ari in charge of his vanguard. When Ju‘fa heard about the army, they 
split into two groups. One group went to Yemen and the other group attached 
themselves to the Bant Zubayd. 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, learnt of that and wrote to 
Khalid b. al-Walid: “Stop where my messenger reaches you.” He did not stop, 
so (‘Alt) wrote to Khalid b. Sa‘id b. al-‘As: “Intervene so that you stop him.” 
Khalid (b. Sa‘td) met him and stopped him. 


107 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, caught up with him and 
upbraided him severely for his opposition to his orders. Then he went on until he 
came upon the Banti Zubayd in a valley called Kisr. When the Bani Zubayd saw 
him, they said to ‘Amr: “How are you, Abt Thawr? When this young man meets 
you, he will take tribute from you.” 

“He will know that he has met me,” he said. 

Then ‘Amr went forward and cried out: “Who will meet me in combat?” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, rose to go against him but 
Khalid b. Sa‘id also stood up and said: “Abi al-Hasan, (I would ransom) you 
with my father and mother, let me meet him in combat.” 

“Tf you consider that you owe any obedience to me, remain in your place,” the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, told him. 


He stayed and the Commander of the Faithful went forward. There was a great 
clamour. ‘Amr was put to flight and his brother and cousin were killed. His 
wife, Rukana daughter of Salama, was taken, and his (other) womenfolk were 
captured. 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, departed and left Khalid b. 
Sa‘td behind in charge of the Bant Zubayd to collect their taxes and to provide 
security for those who, having submitted to Islam, returned to him from their 
flight. ‘Amr b. Ma‘dikarib returned. He asked permission (to visit) Khalid b. 
Sa‘td and the latter gave him permission. Then he returned to Islam. He spoke to 
him about his wife and children and he gave them to him. 


When ‘Amr stood at the door of Khalid b. Sa‘td, he found (there) an animal 
which had been slaughtered. He gathered the bones of it together and struck them 
with his sword, cutting through them all. His sword was called Simsama. When 
Khalid b. Sa‘Id gave ‘Amr his wife and children, ‘Amr gave him al-Simsama. 


(Earlier) the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, had chosen a slave- 
girl from among the prisoners. Now Khalid b. al-Walid sent Burayda al-Aslam1 
to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He told him: “Get to (the 
Prophet) before the army does. Tell him what ‘Ali, peace be on him, has done in 
choosing a slave-girl for himself from the Ahums (fifth of the booty that was to 
go to the Prophet and others, including the family of the Prophet) and bring him 
dishonour.” 


Burayda went and came to the door of the Apostle of Allah. There he met ‘Umar 
al-Khattab. The latter asked him about how their expedition had gone and about 


108 


why he had come. He told him that he had only come to bring dishonour to ‘Ali 
and he mentioned his choosing a slave-girl from the khums for himself. 


“Carry out what you have come to do,” ‘Umar told him, “for he (the Prophet) 
will be angry at what ‘Ali, peace be on him, has done on account of his 
daughter.” 


Burayda went in to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He had 
with him the letter from Khalid with which he had been sent. He began to read 
it. The face of the Prophet began to change. 


“Apostle of Allah,” said Burayda, “if you permitted the people (to act) like this, 
their fay’ (booty to be distributed) would disappear.” 


“Woe upon you, Burayda,” the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
told him. “You have committed an act of hypocrisy.‘Ali b. Abt Talib is allowed 
to have what is allowed to me from their fay’. ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, 
is the best of men for you and your people and the best of those whom I will 
leave behind after me for the whole of my community. Burayda, I warn you that 
if you hate ‘Ali, Allah will hate you.” 


Burayda reported: I wanted the earth to split open for me so that I could be 
swallowed into it. Then I said: “I seek refuge in Allah from the anger of Allah 
and the anger of the Apostle of Allah. Apostle of Allah, forgive me. I will never 
hate ‘Ali and I will only speak good of him.” 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, forgave him. 


In this expedition, the Commander of the Faithful (demonstrated) qualities 
which were beyond comparison with the qualities of anyone else. In particular, 
victory in it was brought about by his hand. It also showed his great merit and 
his sharing with the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, in the fay’ 
which Allah had permitted to the latter. Thus it showed his special designation 
for something which none of the other people could have and it set him apart by 
reason of the Apostle of Allah’s love for him and his preference for him which 
had been hidden to those who had no previous knowledge of it. There is also his 
warning Burayda and others against hating him and against enmity towards him, 
and his urging him to love him and accept his authority (wi/aya). In addition the 
response to the plot of his enemies in their attempt to vilify him indicates that 
he was the best (afdal) of creatures in the view of Allah, the Exalted, and of him 
(the Prophet), peace be on him, and the one with the most right for his position 


109 


(of authority) after him. In himself he was the most special of (the Muslims) with 
(the Prophet) and the most influential of them with him. 


(THE CAMPAIGN OF (DHAT) AL-SALASIL)*” 


Then there was the campaign of (Dhat) al-Silsila. That was when a Bedouin 
came to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He squatted in front 
of him and said: “I have come to advise you. A group of Arabs have gathered 
together at Wadi al-Raml and they have plotted to come and attack you at night 
in Medina.” Then he described them to him. 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, ordered the call to be 
given: “The prayer is general (al-salat jami ‘a i.e. all should attend the prayer).” 
The Muslims gathered and he went up on to the pulpit. He praised and glorified 
Allah. Then he said: “There is an enemy of Allah and an enemy of yours who has 
plotted to attack you at night. Who will (go against) them?” 


A group of the poor people stood up and said: “We will go against them, Apostle 
of Allah. Therefore appoint whoever you wish over us.” 

He drew lots among them and the lot fell upon eighty from among them and 
others. He summoned Abt Bakr and said to him: “Take the flag and depart 
against the Bani Sulaym. They are near al-Harra.” 


He departed and with him went the people until he drew near their land. There 
were many stones and trees there and the people (i.e. the Banti Sulaym) were in 
the middle of the valley and the descent to it was difficult. When Abi Bakr got 
to the valley, he intended to go down but the people came out against him and 
put him to flight. They killed a great number of the Muslims and Abi Bakr fled 
from the people. 


When they came to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, he gave 
the command to ‘Umar b. al-Khattab and sent him against them. They lay hidden 
under the stones and trees. When he went to descend, they came out against him 
and put him to flight. 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was grieved at this. ‘Amr 
b. al-‘As said to him: “Send me against them, Apostle of Allah. For warfare is 
deception and perhaps I can deceive them.” 

He sent him with a group of men and commissioned him (to carry out the task). 
When he got to the valley, they came out against him and put him to flight. They 
39 cf. footnote 24 referring to pages 74-77. 


110 


killed a number of those who accompanied him. 


(After this,) the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, delayed 
for several days praying (for Allah’s help) against them. Then he summoned the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. He gave him the command and 
said: “I have sent him as one who will attack, not one who will flee.” Then he 
raised his hands to the heavens and said: “O Allah, if You know that I am Your 
Apostle, then protect him for me. Act through him, act.” 

Thus he prayed for the will of Allah for him. 


‘Alt b. Abi Talib set out and the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, went out to say farewell to him. He went with him to the mosque of the 
allies (al-ahzab). ‘Ali, peace be on him, was riding a shorn-haired bay. He was 
wearing two Yemeni garments and carrying a spear. The Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, said farewell to him and prayed for him. 


He had sent among those who had been sent with him, Abi Bakr, ‘Umar and 
‘Amr b. al-‘As. (‘Ali) set off towards Iraq deviating from the (usual) route so 
that they would think that he was heading with (his men) in another direction. 
Then he took them along a little known track and brought them along so that he 
approached the valley from (the direction of) its entrance. When he was near the 
valley, he ordered those with him to tie up their horses and he made them stop in 
their place. He said to them: “Do not leave your position.” Then he went forward 
in front of them. He stood at a distance from them. 


When ‘Amr b. al-‘As saw what he had done, he had no doubt that victory would 
be his. (Resenting this, he) said to Abi Bakr: “I know that place better than ‘AI, 
peace be on him. There, there is something which will attack us more fiercely 
than the Bant Sulaym. There are hyenas and wolves. If they come out against us, 
I am afraid that they will cut us down. Speak to him to let us go up the valley.” 


Abi Bakr went forward and spoke to him. He spoke at length but the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, did not answer a single word. He 
went back to them and said: “No, by Allah, he did not say a single word in reply.” 


Then ‘Amr b. al-‘As said to ‘Umar b. al-Khattab: “You are more powerful with 
him.” 

So ‘Umar went and spoke to him. He treated him exactly as he had treated Abu 
Bakr. He returned to them and told him that he had not answered him. 


‘Amr b. al-‘As spoke to (the men): “It is not fitting that we should lose our lives. 


111 


So come with us up the valley.” 


“No, by Allah,” retorted the Muslims, “we will not do so. The Apostle of Allah 
ordered us to listen to ‘Alt, peace be on him, and to obey him. Shall we abandon 
his command and listen to you and obey you?” 


They continued in this manner so that the Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him, felt (a feeling of) pride. He was able to surround the people while they 
were still unaware. Allah, the Exalted, gave him power over them. 


Siirat al-‘Adiyat dabhan (C) was revealed to the Prophet, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family. The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
announced the news of the victory to his Companions and ordered them to meet 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. They went to meet him with 
the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, at their head. The Muslims 
positioned themselves in two ranks. When (‘Alj) saw the Prophet, he dismounted 
from his horse. The Prophet said to him: “Mount (your horse). Allah and His 
Apostle are pleased with you.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, wept with joy. Then the 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “‘Alj, if it was not for the 
fact that I am concerned that some factions of my community would say (of 
you) what the Christians say of the Messiah, Jesus, son of Mary, I would say of 
you today such as (after them) you would never pass a gathering of men without 
them taking the soil from under your feet.” 


Victory in this expedition was entirely due to the Commander of the Faithful 
after the corruption which had occurred through the others. He was singled out 
for special praise by the Prophet with regard to it, for virtues which in no way 
occurred in anyone else. He distinguished him with a rank in which no one else 
had any share. 


112

[[p 22]]
CHAPTER IV 


THE ROLE OF THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 
IN THE LAST YEAR OF THE PROPHET’S LIFE 


(THE DEPUTATION OF CHRISTIANS FROM NAJRAN AND THE CONTEST OF 
PRAYER) 


When Islam had spread after the conquest (of Mecca) and the raids already 
described, which followed it, and its authority had become strong, delegations 
began to visit the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. Some of them 
submitted to Islam while others sought protection so that they might return to 
their people (to tell) their people about his view towards them. Among those who 
came in a delegation to him were Abt Haritha, the bishop of Najran, with thirty 
of the Christians who included the deputy (al- ‘agib), the chief (al-sayyid) and 
‘Abd al-Masth. They arrived at Medina at the time of the afternoon prayer. They 
were wearing robes of silk and crosses. 


The Jews approached them and they began to interrogate each other. The 
Christians said: “You are not believing in anything (correctly).” And the Jews 
replied to them: “You are not believing in anything (correctly).” Concerning 
that, Allah, may He be praised, revealed: The Jews say that the Christians are 
not believing in anything (correctly) and the Christians say that the Jews are not 
believing in anything (correctly) .. . . etc. to the end of the verse (II 113). 


When the Prophet had prayed the afternoon prayer, they came forwards. At their 
head was the bishop. He said to him: “Muhammad, what do you say about the 
Lord, the Messiah?” 

“He is a servant of Allah,” replied the Prophet, “whom Allah chose and he 
answered Him.” 

“Do you know, Muhammad, whether a father caused him to be born?” asked the 
bishop. 

“He was not born as a result of intercourse so he could not have a father,” 
answered the Prophet. 

“How can you say that he is a servant who has been created, when you can only 
consider a servant who has been created to be born as a result of intercourse and 
so to have a father?” he asked. 


Allah, may He be praised and exalted, revealed these verses in Sarat ‘Al ‘Imran 
(II) in answer to him: The likeness of Jesus according to Allah is like the 


113 


likeness of Adam. Allah created him from earth. Then Allah said to him: “Be.” 
That is the truth from your Lord. Therefore do not be one of those who go 
beyond the bounds (of reason). If anyone disputes with you concerning him, after 
knowledge has been given to you, say to him: Come, let us call our sons and your 
sons, our women and your women, and ourselves and yourselves. Then let us call 
on Allah to witness against each other and let us make the curse of Allah fall on 
those who lie (III 59-61). 


The Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, recited it to the Christians 
and challenged them to a contest of prayer to Allah (mubdahala). He said: “Allah, 
the Mighty and High, has informed me that dread torment will come down on 
him who has spoken falsely after the contest of prayer (mubdahala). By this the 
truth will be distinguished from the false.” 


The Bishop held a meeting of consultation with ‘Abd al-Masth and the deputy. 
Their unanimous view was to wait until the early morning of the next day. When 
they both returned to their men, the bishop told them: “Watch Muhammad 
tomorrow morning. If he comes out with his children and his family, then be 
warned against the contest of prayer (mubdahala) with him. However, if he comes 
out with his Companions, then make the contest of prayer with him, for he 
believes in something other (than the true religion).” 


On the next morning, the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, came 
and took ‘Ali b. Abt Talib by the hand, while al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace 
be on them, were walking in front of him and Fatima, peace be on her, walked 
behind him. The Christians came out, at their head their bishop. When the bishop 
saw that the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was advancing with 
those who were with him, he asked about them. He was told: “That is his cousin 
‘Alt b. Abt Talib, who is his son-in-law and the father of his two grandsons and 
the most lovable of creatures to him. Those children are the sons of his daughter 
by ‘Ali, peace be on him. They are the most lovable of creatures to him. That 
girl is his daughter, Fatima, peace be on her, the dearest of people to him and the 
closest to his heart.” 


The bishop looked at the deputy, the chief and ‘Abd al-Masth and said: “Have 
you seen that he has come with the special members of his children and his 
family so that he may make the contest of prayer with them, trusting in his 
truthfulness. By God, he would not have come with them while he was afraid 
that the proof would be against him. Therefore be warned against the contest 
of prayer with him. By God, if it was not for the position of Caesar (i.e. the 
Byzantine emperor), I would submit to him. But (now) make peace with him on 


114 


what can be agreed between you and him. Return to your land and think about 
it yourselves.” 

“Our view conforms with your view,” they replied. 

“Abu al-Qasim,” the bishop called out, “we will not make a contest of prayer 
with you but we will make peace with you. Therefore make peace with us as we 
propose.” 


So the Prophet made peace with them on the condition (of the payment) of two 
thousand protective breastplates, each breastplate being forty standard dirham 
(in value). If they varied in value, it would be taken into account. The Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, had a document written (laying out the 
terms) by which he had made peace with them. The document is as follows: 
In the name of Allah, the Merciful and the Compassionate. 
In terms of gold and silver, produce and slaves, nothing will be taken 
from them except two thousand protective breastplates, each breastplate 
being worth forty dirham. If they vary in value, it will be taken into the 
account. They will pay one thousand of them in the month of Safar and one 
thousand of them in the month of Rajab. (In addition,) they will provide 
forty dinars for a dwelling house for my agent (rasu/), not more than that. 
Also in every incident that occurs in Yemen, it will be required of them, 
(that is) of everyone who lives in a permanent settlement (dhi‘adan), to 
pay as guaranteed equally (by both parties) thirty breastplates, thirty 
horses and thirty camels as guaranteed equally (by both parties). They will 
have the neighbourly protection of Allah (jiwar Allah) and the protection 
(dhimma) of Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah. Whoever of them takes interest 
after this year will be denied my protection. 


This is a document made on behalf of Muhammad, the Prophet, the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and the people of 
Najran and their followers. 


The people took the document and departed. 


In the story of the people of Najran there is a clear explanation of the 
outstanding merit of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, in 
addition to the clear sign of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
and the miracle which indicates his prophethood. Do you not see the Christians’ 
admission of his prophethood, and his convincing them to refrain from the 
contest of prayer, and making them realise that if they had taken part in such a 
contest, dread punishment against them would have been permissible? Similarly 
he, peace be on him, was confident in victory and success over them by the proof 


115 


(he would bring) against them. Allah, the Exalted, gave judgement in the verse 
of the contest of prayer on behalf of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him, that he was of the same (station) as the Apostle of Allah, thus revealing 
the great extent of his outstanding merit and his equality with the Prophet, the 
blessings and peace of Allah be on Him and His Family, in terms of perfection 
and protection (isma) from sin. Indeed Allah made him and his wife and his 
two sons, who were so close to each other in age, a proof for His prophet and 
evidence for His religion. He gave textual evidence of the judgement that 
al-Hasan and al-Husayn were his sons and that Fatima was his “womenfolk” 
referred to in the statement and those addressed in the call for the contest of 
prayer and dispute. This is a merit which no one else of the community shares 
with them, nor even approaches them in it, nor has anything like it in its 
significance. It is associated with the outstanding special qualities of the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, which we have already mentioned 
earlier. 


THE PRopHET’s FAREWELL PILGRIMAGE! AND THE DECLARATION AT GHADIR 
Kuumm.? 


Among the stories relating the outstanding merit of the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, and giving special emphasis to his virtues, which 
came after the (visit of the) delegation from Najran, is that which distinguishes 
him from all the rest of men - (that is) the Farewell Pilgrimage and the reports of 
what took place during it. During it the Commander of the Faithful had the most 
elevated position. 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, had sent him, peace 
be on him, to Yemen to collect the fifth share (Ahums) of their gold and silver and 
collect the breastplates and other things which the people of Najran had agreed 
to pay. He went there to carry out the requests of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. In accordance with his instructions and speedily 
demonstrating his obedience, he performed his duty. The Apostle of Allah 
trusted in no one else as he trusted in him for that task. Nor did he consider 
anyone among the people appropriate to undertake it except him. He made him, 
peace be on him, occupy a similar position to himself in that. He appointed him 
as his deputy, in confidence of him and secure in the knowledge that he would 
carry out the difficult tasks which were imposed upon him. 


1 The account concurs with that of Ibn Ishaq though according to him ‘Ali does not bring any 
sacrificial offering. Nor is ‘Umar mentioned by Ibn Ishaq, cf. Ibn Hisham, Sira, 966-968. 

2 For a collection of the traditions supporting the account of Ghadir Khumm, cf. al-Baladhuri, 
Ansab al-Ashraf, Il, 108-111. 


116 


Then the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, decided to 
go on the pilgrimage and to carry out the duties which Allah, the Exalted, had 
decreed. He summoned the people to (Goin) him and his call went out to the 
furthest points in the land of Islam. The people began to prepare to set out with 
him. A great crowd came to Medina from the outskirts, and around, and the area 
nearby. They began to make preparations to set out with him. 


He, may Allah bless Him and His Family, set out with them with five days 
remaining in (the month of) Dhi al-Qa‘da. He had written to the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, about going on the pilgrimage from Yemen but he 
had not mentioned the kind of pilgrimage he had decided to make. 


In fact (the Prophet), peace be on him, had set out as a garin (a pilgrim who 
would make the lesser pilgrimage (‘wmra) and the greater pilgrimage (hajj) 
together without any break in the state of ritual consecration necessary for 
both pilgrimages), by driving the sacrificial animal with him. He put on the 
pilgrim garment and entered into the state of ritual consecration (ahrama) at 
Dhi al-Hulayfa. The people did the same with him. He began the ritual call of 
the pilgrimage (¢a/biya) on the night he reached al-Bayda’ which is half-way 
between the two sanctuaries (of Medina and Mecca). Then he went on to Kira‘ 
al-Ghamim. The people with him were riding and on foot. Those on foot found 
the journey arduous. (The hardships of) travelling and tiredness beset them. They 
complained of that to the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, and 
asked him if they could be carried by mounts. He told them that he could not find 
(an animal) for each of them and instructed them to fasten their belts and to mix 
sand with milk (to rub on their feet). They did that and they found relief in it. 


(Meanwhile) the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, set out 
with the soldiers who had accompanied him to Yemen. He had with him the 
breastplates which he had collected from the people of Najran. When the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was nearing Mecca on the road 
from Medina, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was nearing it on 
the road from Yemen. He went ahead of the army to meet the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, and he left one of their number in charge of them. He 
came up to the Prophet as the latter was looking down over Mecca. He greeted 
him and informed him of what he had done and of what he had collected and that 
he had hurried ahead of the army to meet him. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, was pleased at that and delighted to meet him. 


““ All, have you consecrated yourself for the pilgrimage?” he asked him. 
“You did not write to me about the way you would consecrate yourself, Apostle 


117 


of Allah,” he answered. “I did not know. Therefore I made my intention 
according to your intention and said: O Allah, let my intention be the intention of 
Your Prophet. I have driven thirty-four sacrificial animals with me.” 


“Allah is greater (Allahu akbar),” replied the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family. “I have driven sixty-six. You will be my partner in my 
pilgrimage, my rituals and my sacrifice. Therefore remain in your state of ritual 
consecration and return to your army. Then hurry with them to me so that we 
may meet in Mecca, if Allah, the Exalted, wills.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, said farewell to him and 
returned to his army. He met them nearby and found that they had put on the 
breastplates which they had had with them. He denounced them for that. 


“Shame on you!” he said to the man whom he had appointed as his deputy over 
them. “Whatever made you give them the breastplates before we hand them over 
to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family? I did not give you 
permission to do that.” 


“They asked me to let them deck themselves out and enter into the state of 
consecration in them, and then they would give them back to me,” he replied. 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, took them off the people 
and put them back in the sacks. They were discontented with him because of 
that. When they came to Mecca, their complaints against the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, became numerous. The Apostle of Allah ordered the 
call to be given among the people: “Stop your tongues (speaking) against ‘Alt b. 
Abt Talib, peace be on him. He is one who is harsh in the interests of Allah, the 
Mighty and High, not one who deceives in His religion.” 


At this the people refrained from mentioning him and they realised the high 
position he enjoyed with the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and 
his anger against anyone who wanted to find fault with him. 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, had entered into his state 
of consecration following the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and his 
family. Many of the Muslims had set out with the Prophet without driving 
victims for sacrifice. Allah revealed: Complete the greater pilgrimage (hajj) 
and the lesser pilgrimage (‘umra) (II 196). The Apostle of Allah explained: 
“The lesser pilgrimage (‘uwmra) has been brought into the (rites of the) greater 
pilgrimage (Aaj/) until the Day of Resurrection.” 


118 


He knitted the fingers of both hands together and then he said: “If I had 
anticipated the consequence of my commandment, I would not have driven 
sacrificial victims.” 


Then he ordered the call to be given: “Those of you who have not driven 
sacrificial victims, should break your state of consecration so that you only 
made it to perform the lesser pilgrimage (‘umra). But those of you who drove 
sacrificial victims must remain in that state of consecration.” 


Some of the people obeyed that but others opposed it. Discussions took place 
among them concerning it. There were some who maintained: “The Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, has dishevelled hair and is dusty; 
shall we dress in clothes, have intercourse with women and use perfume?” And 
others said: “Are you not ashamed to come with heads dripping with water from 
ritual ablutions (after intercourse) while the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, remains in a state of ritual consecration?” 


The Apostle of Allah denounced those who opposed that and explained: “If 
I had not driven sacrificial victims, I would have broken my state of ritual 
consecration and only made it for the lesser pilgrimage (‘wmra). Therefore 
those of you who have not driven sacrificial victims, should break your state of 
consecration.” 


Some of the people withdrew their opposition but others still maintained it. 
Among those who maintained their opposition to the Prophet, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, was ‘Umar b. al-Khattab. 


The Apostle of Allah summoned him and asked him: “Why are you still in a state 
of ritual consecration, ‘Umar? Did you drive sacrificial victims?” 

“T did not drive any.” he replied. 

“Then why have you not broken your state of consecration when I told those who 
had not driven sacrificial victims to break it?” he asked. 

“By Allah, Apostle of Allah,” he answered, “I could not break my state of ritual 
consecration while you were still in yours.” 

“You will never believe in it until you die.” the Prophet, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, said. 


Thus it was that (“Umar) maintained his denial of mut ‘at al-hajj (the joining of 
the lesser pilgrimage and the greater pilgrimage together with an intervening 
period of a few days when the pilgrim breaks the state of ritual consecration 
and is allowed all things in normal life). In the time of his leadership, he went 
up on the pulpit and forbade it once more and threatened punishment for its 


119 


performance. 


When the Apostle of Allah carried out his rituals of the pilgrimage, he made 
‘Alt his partner in his sacrifice of animals: Then he began his journey back to 
Medina. (‘Al1) and the Muslims went with him. He came to a place known 
as Ghadir Khumm. At that time, it was not a place suitable for a halt because 
it lacked water and pasturage. However, he, peace be on him, stopped there 
and the Muslims with him. The reason for his halting at this place was that 
a revelation had been received by him concerning the appointment of the 
Commander of the Faithful, ‘Alt b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, as successor 
for the community after him. The revelation concerning that had been received 
earlier but without the designation of the time (for it to be made public). He 
had delayed (making it public) until the presence of a time in which he would 
be secure from any dispute among them concerning it. Allah, the Mighty and 
High, had informed him that if he went beyond Ghadir Khumm, many of the 
people would separate from his party (heading) for their towns, homes and 
valleys. Allah wanted him to gather them together to hear the designation of the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and to confirm the proofs of it to 
them. Therefore Allah, the Exalted, revealed: O Apostle, make known what has 
been revealed to you from your Lord (V 67), that is concerning the succession of 
‘Ali and the designation of the Imamate for him. /f you do not do it, you will not 
have made known His message. Allah will protect you from the people (V 67). 
Thus He confirms the duty he had concerning that and the fear that had caused 
him delay and He guarantees to him protection and defence against the people. 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, stopped at the place 
we have mentioned because of what we have described and explained about 
the command for him to do that. The Muslims stopped around him. It was a 
scorching day of intense heat. He ordered (‘Ali), peace be on him, to go and 
stand under a great tree that was there and he ordered the travellers to be gathered 
in that place and to be put in (rows) one after another. 


Then he ordered the crier to call out: “The prayer is general (a/-salat jami‘a 
i.e. everybody should gather).” The travellers (all) gathered before him. Most 
of them wrapped their cloaks (rida’) around their feet because of the scorching 
hot ground. When they had gathered, he climbed above the travellers so that he 
was high above them and he summoned the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him. He made him come up with him so that he stood on his right. He then 
began to address the people. He praised and glorified Allah, and preached most 
eloquently. He gave the community news of his own death, saying: “I have been 
summoned and it is nearly the moment for me to answer. The time has come 


120 


for me to depart from you. I leave behind me among you two things which, if 
you cleave to them, you will never go astray - that is the Book of Allah and my 
offspring from my family (ah/ al-bayt). They will never scatter (from you) until 
they lead you to me at the (sacred) waters (of Heaven).” 


Then he called out at the top of his voice: “Am I not more appropriate (to rule) 
you than yourselves?” 
“By Allah, yes!” they answered. 


He went on speaking continuously without any interruption and taking both arms 
of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and raising them so that the 
white of his armpits could be seen, he said: “Whoever I am the master (mawid) 
of, this man, ‘Alt, is his master. O Allah, befriend whoever befriends him, be 
hostile to whoever opposes him, support whoever supports him and desert 
whoever deserts him.” 


Then he, peace be on him, went down. It was the time of the midmorning heat. He 
prayed two rak ‘as. The sun then began to decline (at mid-day) so the mu ‘adhdhin 
(the one who calls the prayer) called for the statutory prayer (of mid-day). He led 
them in the mid-day prayer. Then he, peace be on him (went to) sit in his tent. 
He ordered ‘Alt, peace be on him, to sit in his tent opposite him, and he ordered 
the Muslims to go in group after group to congratulate him on his position and 
to acknowledge his command over the faithful. All the people did that. Then he 
ordered his wives and the rest of the wives of the faithful who were with him to 
go to him and acknowledge his command over the faithful. They did that. 


Among those who were profuse in their congratulations on his position was 
‘Umar b. al-Khattab. He gave a public appearance of great joy at it, saying: 
“Bravo, bravo, ‘Ali, you have become my master and the master of every 
believing man and woman.” 


Hassan b. Thabit came to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and his 
family, and said: “Apostle of Allah, will you permit me to recite what would 
please Allah with regard to this position?” 

“Recite in the name of Allah, Hassan,” he told him. 


He stood on elevated ground. The people spread out to listen to his words and 
he began to recite: 
On the day of al-Ghadir he summoned them and made them answer at 
Khumm. Listen to the Apostle as he calls. 


121 


He said: “Who is your master (mawla) and friend (wali)?” They answered 
without showing any signs of opposition: 

“Allah is our master (mawi/d) and you are our friend (wali). You will never 
find any disobedience from us to you.” 


He said to him: “Arise, ‘Ali, I am content that you should be Imam and 
guide after me 


Whomsoever I am master (mawlda) of, this man is his friend (wali). 
Therefore be faithful helpers and followers of him.” 


There he prayed: “O Allah, befriend his friend and be hostile to whoever 
opposes ‘ Ali.” 


“May you always be supported by the Spirit of Holiness, Hassan,” the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said to him, “as long as you support 
us with your tongue.” 


The Apostle of Allah made this condition in his prayer because he was aware 
that his attitude would end in opposition. If he knew that he would have 
remained sound (in belief) in future circumstances, he would have made the 
prayer for him absolute. Similar conditions were made by Allah, the Exalted, in 
praising the wives of the Prophet. He did not praise them unconditionally because 
He was aware that some of them would change their condition later from the 
righteousness which entitled them to praise and honour. Thus He said: O Wives 
of the Prophet, you are not like any other women, if you are pious (X XXIII 32). 
He did not treat them in that the same way as he treated the family of the Prophet 
in terms of honouring and praise when they gave their food to orphans, the 
poor and prisoners. Therefore Allah, may He be praised, sent down a revelation 
conceming ‘Ali, Fatima, al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be on them, after they 
had preferred (to give their food rather than have it) themselves despite their 
own need for it. For Allah said: Out of love of Allah, they feed the poor, the 
orphan and the prisoner. Indeed we feed you for the sake of Allah. We do not 
want reward, nor thanks from you. We only fear our Lord on an inauspicious 
stern day. Then Allah will guard them from the evil of that day. He will meet 
them with joy and splendour. He will reward them with gardens and silk for 
what they have endured. (LXXVI 8-12). He positively asserted reward for them 
unconditionally just as He stipulated conditions for others because He knew of 
the different circumstances as we have explained. 


In the Farewell Pilgrimage, there was (an example) of the outstanding merit of 


122 


the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, by which he was especially 
characterised as we have explained. In it he was uniquely set apart with the 
exalted rank in the way we have mentioned. He was the partner of the Apostle 
of Allah in his pilgrimage, (and shared his) sacrificial animals and (shared 
with him) in the rites of the pilgrimage. Allah, the Exalted, gave him the same 
intention as (the Prophet), peace be on them both, and agreement in worship. 
There was revealed concerning his position with (the Prophet), peace be on him, 
and his exalted station with Allah, may He be praised, what extols his praise and 
requires the necessity of obedience to him by other men, by designating him for 
succession (khilafa), and by making plain through him the call to follow him and 
forbidding opposition to him, and by the prayer for those who followed him in 
religion and provided help for him, the prayer against those who opposed him, 
and the curse against those who came forward in enmity against him. Thus it 
was demonstrated that he was the best of the creatures of Allah, the Exalted, 
the noblest of His creation. This is also one of the things which no one else in 
the community had any share in, nor was there any substitute for it which might 
approximate it as is clear to anyone who thinks, and obvious to anyone who 
knows the significance of reality. May Allah be He Who is praised. 


THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE LAST ILLNESS AND DEATH OF THE PROPHET? 


Among the circumstances which were given new significance by the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and the events which occurred 
through the decree and ordinance of Allah, which confirm his outstanding merit 
and characterise his exalted rank, are those which occurred after the Farewell 
Pilgrimage. That was when the (Prophet), peace be on him, realised through 
the nearness of (the end of) his allotted span (the need to put into effect) what 
he had already told his community. He, peace be on him, began to make speech 
after speech among the Muslims, warning them against discord after him and 
opposition to him. He confirmed his injunction to them to cleave to his sunna 
and those (matters) on which there was agreement and conformity. He urged 
them to follow his family, to obey them, to support, guard and hold fast to them 
in religion. He warned them against opposition and apostasy. 


Among the things which were mentioned by him, peace be on him, is one which 
the reporters (of tradition and history) report with agreement and unanimity, that 
he, peace be on him, said: “People, I am a way-mark for you. You will come to 
me at the (heavenly) waters. Then indeed I will ask you about the two important 
things (which I left behind). Take care how you follow me with regard to them, 


3 The crucial events around the Prophet’s death represent an important feature of the Shr‘ite 
polemic. The following account gives a clear picture of the Shr‘ite position. 


123 


for the Good and Knowing (Allah) has informed me that they will never scatter 
(from you) until they meet me. I asked my Lord for that and He granted it to me. 
Indeed I have left among you the Book of Allah and the offspring of my family 
(ahl al-bayt). Do not try to outdo them, for then you will be destroyed. Do not 
try to teach them, for they are more knowledgeable than you. People, may I not 
find you, after I (have gone), returning to being unbelievers with some of you 
striking down others, for then you will meet me with a host like a sea of flowing 
soldiers. Indeed ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, is my brother, my trustee 
(wasi). After me he will fight for the (true) interpretation of the Qur’an just like 
I fought for its revelation.” 


He, may Allah bless Him and His Family, used to address meeting after meeting 
with words like these. 


Then he commissioned Usama b. Zayd b. Haritha. He ordered and urged him to 
leave with many members of the community for where his father had been killed 
in the Byzantine (empire). He, peace be on him, decided to send out the foremost 
of the Emigrants and Ansar in his army, so that at his death there would not be 
anyone in Medina who differed about the leadership and who had ambitions 
to become the leader of the people. In this way he (hoped to) set in order the 
situation for the man who was to succeed him and to prevent any opponent from 
opposing him in his right. He gave (Usama) the command on the condition which 
we have mentioned and he endeavoured to send them out. He ordered Usama to 
leave Medina with his army for al-Jurf, and he urged the people to go out to him 
and to go with him. He warned them against lingering and dilatoriness in (doing) 
it? 


While matters were in that situation, the illness came upon him of which he 
(later) died. When he felt the sickness which had befallen him, he took the hand 
of ‘Alt, peace be on him. A group of the people followed him and he headed 
for (the cemetery of) al-Baqi‘. He told those who followed him: “I have been 
commanded to seek forgiveness for (the souls of) the people of (the cemetery of) 
al-Baqi‘.” 


They went with him until he stopped in front of them. He, peace be on him, said: 
“People of the graves, let there be comfort for you in your situation (as opposed 
to the situation) in which discords have come upon the people like the cutting of 
the dark night when the first of them will follow the last.” 


Then he (spent) a long time seeking forgiveness for (the souls of) the people 


4 cf. Ibn Hisham, Sira, 1006-7 without mentioning Abi Bakr and ‘Umar’s involvement. 


124 


of (the cemetery of) al-Baqt‘. (After this), he approached the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, and told him: “Gabriel, peace be on him, used to 
revise the Qur’an with me once each year. This year he has revised it with me 
twice. I can only consider that it is because (the end of) my allotted span of life is 
at hand.” Then he said: “‘Alt, I was given the choice between remaining forever 
amid the treasuries of the world or of (going to) heaven. I have chosen to meet 
my Lord and (to go to) heaven. When I die, wash me. Cover my nakedness so 
that no one but a blind man could see it.”* 


He returned to his house and remained there for three days in a weak condition. 
Then he went out to the mosque, wearing a turban on his head and leaning on the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, on his right hand and on al-Fad1 
b. al-‘Abbas on his other hand. He went up on the pulpit and sat there. Then he 
said: “People, the time of my departure from you has come. Whoever has any 
goods with me, let him come to me so that I may give them to him. Whoever has 
a debt which I owe him, let him inform me of it. People, between Allah and any 
man there is nothing by which (Allah) will give him better or by which Allah 
will keep away from him evil, except works (al-‘amal). People, by Him who 
sent me as a prophet with truth, let no one claim nor anyone desire that there 
should be salvation without works through (Allah’s) mercy. If I had disobeyed, 
I would have been hurled down (to damnation). O Allah, have I conveyed (the 
message)?” 


He went down and led the people in a short prayer. He returned to his house. At 
that time, he was in the house of Umm Salama, may Allah be pleased with her. 
He remained there for a day or two. Then ‘A’isha came to her to ask her to move 
him to her house so that she might undertake to nurse him. She had asked the 
wives of the Prophet about that and they had given her their permission. Thus he, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, was moved to the house in which ‘A’ isha 
lived. The illness remained with him for several days and grew more serious. 


At the time of the morning prayer, Bilal came while the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, was overcome by sickness. (He asked:) “Do I 
call the prayer, may Allah have mercy on you?” 


The Apostle of Allah gave him permission to make his call and said: “Let one of 
the people pray before them, for I am too distracted by (the final hours of) my 
life.” 

“Order Abi Bakr,” ‘A’ isha said. 

“Order ‘Umar,” intervened Hafsa. 


5 cf. ibid., 1001, without mentioning ‘Ali. 


125 


When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, heard their 
words and saw the eagerness of each of them to exalt her own father and their 
discord about that, he said: “Have you put the shroud on the Apostle of Allah 
while he is still alive? Indeed you are like the mistresses of Joseph.” 


Then he, peace be on him, rose hurriedly fearing that one of the two men would 
go forward (to lead the prayers). He had ordered them to go with Usama and he 
had had no idea that they would be disobedient. However when he heard what 
he heard from ‘A’isha and Hafsa, he knew that they had delayed in (obeying) his 
command. He hurried to prevent discord and remove doubt. He, blessings and 
peace be on him, arose despite the fact that he could barely lift himself off the 
ground through weakness. ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, took his hand and 
al-FadI b. al-‘Abbas took the other. He leaned on them both and his feet dragged 
a trail along the ground because of his weakness. 


When he came out into the mosque, he found that Abii Bakr had already got to 
the mihrab. He indicated with his hand that he should withdraw and Abit Bakr 
withdrew. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, took up 
his place. He said the “takbir’ and began the prayer which Abt Bakr had begun 
before without taking any account of what had already been performed. 


After he had said the final greeting of the prayer, he returned to his house. He 
summoned Abii Bakr, ‘Umar and a group of the Muslims who had been present 
at the mosque. He said: “Did I not order you to go with the army of Usama?” 
“Yes, Apostle of Allah,” they replied. 

“Why have you delayed from (carrying out) my order?” 

“T had gone out but then I returned so that I might renew my covenant with you,” 
Abi Bakr said. 

“Apostle of Allah, I did not go out because I did not want to ask travellers about 
you,” ‘Umar answered. 


“Despatch the army of Usama, despatch the army of Usama,” commanded the 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He repeated it three times and 
then he fainted from the fatigue which had come upon him and the sorrow which 
possessed him. 


He remained unconscious for a short time while the Muslims wept and his wives 
and the women and children of the Muslims, and all those present raised great 
cries of lamentation. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
recovered consciousness and looked at them. Then he said: “Bring me ink and 
parchment so that I may write a document for you, after which you will never 


126 


go astray.” 
Again he fainted and one of those present rose to look for ink and parchment. 


“Go back,” ‘Umar ordered him. “He is delirious.” 


The man went back. (Later) those present regretted the dilatoriness (they had 
shown) in bringing ink and parchment and rebuked each other. They used to say: 
“We belong to Allah and to Him we will return, but we have become anxious 
about our disobedience to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family.’”° 


When he, peace be on him, recovered consciousness, one of them said: “We will 
not bring you ink and parchment, Apostle of Allah.” 

“May Allah remove him who made you say ‘no’,” he said. “However, I will 
appoint a trustee over you in a better way through my family.” 


Then he turned his head away from the people. They rose to leave but al-‘Abbas, 
al-Fadl b. al-‘Abbas and ‘Ali b. Abi Talib and his family, in particular, remained 
with him. 

“If this matter is to be settled upon us after you, then tell us,” al-‘Abbas asked 
him. “If you know that we are to be overcome, then give us the decision.” 

“You are those who will be found weak after me,” he answered and then was 
silent. 


The people (rose to leave), weeping with despair at (losing) the Prophet, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family. When they had left, he, peace be on him, said: 
“Send back to me my brother and my uncle (i.e. ‘Alt and al-‘Abbas).” 


They sent for someone to call them and he brought them. When he had them 
sitting close, he, blessings and peace be on him, said: “Uncle of the Apostle of 
Allah, will you accept my testamentary bequest (was7), fulfil my promise and 
carry out my religion?” 


“Apostle of Allah, your uncle is an old man with the responsibilities of a large 
family,” answered al-‘Abbas. “You vie with the wind in liberality and generosity. 
You have made promises which your uncle could never fulfil.” 


Then he turned to ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, and said: “Brother, will you 
accept my testamentary bequest, fulfil my promises, carry out my religion on my 
behalf and look after the affairs of my family after me?” 


6 cf. al-Tabari, I, 1807 


127 


“Yes, Apostle of Allah,” he replied. 
“Come near me,” he told him. 


He went near to him and he embraced him. He took his ring from his finger and 
said: “Take this and put it on your finger.” 


Then he called for his sword, his breastplate and all his weapons and gave those 
to him. He looked for a turban which he used to wear around his stomach when 
he put on his weapons and went out to battle. It was brought to him and he gave 
it to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. Then he said to him: “Go, 
“Alt, in the name of Allah, to your house.” 


On the next day, the people were denied access to him as he was seriously ill in 
bed. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, did not leave him except 
to (fulfil) some necessities. Then he had to go to attend to some of his affairs. The 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, recovered consciousness 
and he missed ‘Alt. His wives were around him and he said: “Call my brother 
and my companion.” The weakness returned to him and he fell silent. 


“Call Abi Bakr,” ‘A’isha said. 

Abu Bakr was summoned. He came and sat by his head. When he opened his 
eyes, he looked at him and then turned his head away from him. Abt Bakr arose 
and said: “If he had any need of me, he would have communicated it to me.” 


When he had gone, the Apostle of Allah repeated his words a second time and 
said: “Call my brother and my companion.” 


“Call ‘Umar for him,” Hafsa said. 

‘Umar was summoned. When he came and the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, saw him, he turned his head away from him. So he went 
away. Then he said: “Call my brother and companion.” 


“Call ‘Alt,” said Umm Salama, may Allah be pleased with her, “for he does not 
mean anyone else.” 


The Commander of the Faithful was summoned. When he was close to him, he 
indicated to him to bend down to him. Then the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, spoke privately to him for a long time. Then he rose 
and sat down beside him until the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, fell asleep. 


128 


When he had fallen asleep, (‘Al1) went out. 

“What did he entrust to you, Abt al-Hasan?” the people asked him. 

“He taught me of a thousand doors of knowledge and each door opened for me 
(another) thousand doors,” he answered. “He made a bequest to me of what I will 
undertake (qa ’im) if Allah, the Exalted, wishes.” 


He became critically ill and death was at hand. The Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, was present with him. When his soul was about to depart, he 
said: “‘Alt, put my head in your lap, for the order of Allah (for my death) has 
come. When my soul departs, take it with your hand and rub your face with it. 
Then point me in the direction of the gibla. Carry out my command and pray 
over me as the first of the people. Do not leave me until you have buried me in 
my grave. Seek the help of Allah, the Exalted.” 


‘Ali, peace be on him, took his head and put it in his lap. Then he lost 
consciousness. Fatima, peace be on her, bent down to look into his face. She was 
weeping and calling to him, saying: 
May he be watered by the white clouds (pouring water) on his face. (He 
was) the one who cared for orphans and the one who protected widows. 


Then the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, opened his eyes 
and said in a weak voice: “These are words for your uncle, Abu Talib. Do not 
recite them. Rather recite: Muhammad is no more than a messenger: many Were 
the messenger that passed away before him. If he died or were slain, will ye then 
Turn back on your heels? (II 144).” 


She wept for a long time. He indicated to her to come close. She went close to 
him and he whispered something to her which lit up her face. Then he, blessings 
and peace be on him, died. The right hand of the Commander of the Faithful was 
under his jaw and his soul passed into it. He raised it to his face and rubbed it 
with it. Then he put him in the direction (of the gib/a), closed his eyes, and laid 
him out on his waist-cloth (izar). 


The report has been handed down that Fatima, peace be on her, was asked: “What 
did the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, whisper to you so 
that by it he made the grief and worry of his death leave you?” 

She replied: “He told me that I would be the first of his family (ah/ al-bayt) to 
join him and that it would not be a long time for me after him before I would be 
with him. That made (the grief) go from me.” 


When the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, wanted to wash him, he 


129 


summoned al-Fadl b. al-‘Abbas and told him to get water for him to wash him 
after he had put a cover over his eyes. Then he split open his shirt from before 
the pocket to the midriff. He washed him, perfumed (his body) and shrouded 
him, while al-Fadl passed him the water and helped him. When he had finished 
washing and preparing his body, he went forward and prayed alone. No one 
shared in the prayer with him. The Muslims in the mosque were talking about 
who would lead them in the prayer over him and where he would be buried. The 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, came out to them and said: “The 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, is our Imam, both alive 
and dead. Therefore let group after group of you come in and let them pray over 
him without an Imam and then let them depart. Allah only took the soul of the 
Prophet in one place and it would please him for his grave to be there. I will bury 
him in the room in which he died.” 

The people accepted that and were pleased with it. 


When the Muslims had prayed over him, al-‘Abbas b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib sent a 
man to Abu ‘Ubayda b. al-Jarrah. He used to dig graves for the Meccans. That 
was the custom of the Meccans. He also sent to Zayd b. Sahl, who used to dig 
graves for the Medinans and make a niche in the side of the grave. He summoned 
them both and said: “O Allah, choose (one of them) for your Prophet.” 


The man was found to be Abi Talha Zayd b. Sahl and he was told to dig a grave 
for the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace. He dug a 
tomb for him. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, entered it (as 
did) al-‘ Abbas b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib, al-Fad1 b. al-‘Abbas and Usama b. Zayd, so 
that they might carry out the burial of the Apostle. 


At this, the Ansar called out from behind the house: “‘Al1, we remind you of 
Allah and our right today with regard to the Apostle of Allah lest it should go 
(from us). Let a man from among us come in so that we may have a share in the 
burial of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family.” 

“Let Aws b. Khawali come in,” he answered. 


He was an excellent man, who had taken part in Badr, from the Banu ‘Awf of 
Khazraj. When he came in, ‘Ali, peace be on him, told him: “Go down into the 
grave.” 


He went down. The Commander of the Faithful put the (body of) the Apostle of 
Allah, blessings and peace be on them both, into his hands and lowered it into 
his grave. When it reached the earth, he told him to come out. He came out and 
‘Alt, peace be on him, went down into the grave. He uncovered the face of the 


130 


Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and put his cheek on the 
earth in the direction of the qibla towards his right. Then he put clay soil on him 
and then poured the earth over him. 


That was on Monday with two days remaining in (the month of) Safar in the 
eleventh year after his emigration, the blessings and peace of Allah be on him. 
He was sixty-three years of age. 


Most of the people did not attend the burial of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, because of the dispute which was taking place 
between the Emigrants and the Ansar over the matter of succession (khildfa). 
Most of them also missed the (funeral) prayer over him on that account as well. 
Fatima began to call out: “How evil has this morning become for him!” 

Abi Bakr heard her and said: “Your morning is an evil morning.” 


The people seized the opportunity of ‘Alt b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, being 
occupied with the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and 
the isolation of the Bant Hashim from them because of the tragedy which had 
befallen them with regard to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family. So they hurried to take control of the affair. What was agreed on 
was agreed in favour of Abt Bakr because of the dislike of the newly-converted 
Meccans (fulaqa’) and (the dislike of) those whose hearts had been reconciled, 
of delaying the matter until Bani Hashim had finished. 


Thus was the matter settled and (the people) pledged allegiance to Abi Bakr 
because of his presence at the place. Well-known factors motivated the people 
to accept this. Among them were their own desires. This book is not the place 
to mention them and we will explain in detail the discussion about them 
(elsewhere). 


The report is handed down that when what had taken place for Abi Bakr had 
taken place and those who pledged allegiance to him, had pledged allegiance, 
a man came to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, while he was 
arranging the grave of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, with a shovel in his hand. He said to him: “The people have pledged 
allegiance to Abt Bakr. The Ansar have given up because of their differences and 
the new Meccan converts (tulaga’) have hurried to make their covenant to the 
man out of fear of your attaining authority.” 

He put the tip of the shovel on the ground with his hand still on it and answered: 
In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Do the people reckon that 
they will abandon saying: ‘We believe,’ without being guilty of deceit? We have 


131 


tested those before them. Allah knows those who are truthful and He knows the 
liar. Do those who do evil deeds consider that they can outdo us? How wrong is 
their judgement. (XXIX 2-4). 


Abi Sufyan came to the door of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, while ‘Ali and al-‘Abbas were zealously attending to the 
arrangements for him, and he called out: 
Banu Hashim, the people have no desire for you. Special (to them) are (the 
clans of) Taym b. Murra and ‘Adi. 


Yet authority should only be among you and belong to you. Only Abi al- 
Hasan (‘Alt) has (a right) to it. 


Abi al-Hasan, take hold of it with a resolute hand. You are being deprived 
of the authority which you expected. 


Then he called out at the top of his voice : “Bani Hashim, Bant ‘Abd Manaf, are 
you content that the despicable father of a young camel, the son of a despicable 
man, should have authority over you? No, by Allah, if you wish, let me provide 
horses and men (who will be sufficient) for it.” 


“Go back, Abt Sufyan,” shouted the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him. “By Allah, you do not seek Allah in what you are suggesting. You are still 
plotting against Islam and those who believe in it. We are busy with the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. Each person gets what he has 
eamed and he is (only) responsible for (wa/z) the crime he has committed.” 


Abi Sufyan went to the mosque. There he found the Banti Umayya gathered. He 
urged them (to take action) in the matter but they did not respond to him. 


Discord was general and affliction was everywhere. Evil events had taken place 
by which Satan gained (greater) power and in which lying and hostile people 
co-operated. Through their denunciation of it, the people of (true) belief were 
abandoned. This is the interpretation of Allah’s words: Beware of discord which 


especially strikes against those of you who oppress (VII 25). 
ok 2 2 2 


In the outstanding virtues of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
which we have enumerated after what we have already mentioned with regard to 
the Farewell Pilgrimage, there is evidence which indicates that he, peace be on 
him, was especially characterised by them in a way that nobody else of mankind 


132 


shared. Each one of them was a special category (of virtue) which stood in its 
own right without needing anything else to (explain) its significance. 


Surely you realise that his special distinction during the illness of the Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, up to the time that Allah, the Exalted, took 
him, required merit in religion and affinity to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family? (This can be seen) through the good deeds which made (the 
Prophet) rely and depend on him, and set him apart from all the people in order 
to look after him at (the end of) his life. (Thus you should realise) the special 
distinction of his love for him which no one else shared with him. (Then there is 
also) the testamentary bequest (wasiyya) which he made to him after it had been 
offered to someone else and refused because the burdens of the duties involved 
in it, and the responsibility of carrying it out and fulfilling the trust (were too 
heavy) for that other person to carry out. He was characterised by having been 
brothered with the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and by 
being with him during his illness when he summoned him. In him was deposited 
the knowledge of religion by which he made him separate from anyone else. He 
carried out the washing and preparation of his body for (his journey to) Allah. 
He said the (funeral) prayer over him before any one else, and he had precedence 
over them in that through his rank with (the Apostle) and with Allah, the Exalted. 
He guided the community as to the manner of the (funeral) prayer over him 
when the matter was doubtful to them. He showed them the place to bury 
him despite the difference of opinion that they had had concerning that. They 
submitted to what he told them to do and considered him (right) in that. Thus 
through all of that he must be regarded as unique in his merit. Through it he 
brought to completion the outstanding action for Islam which he had begun at 
its beginning (and continued) to the death of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. As a result of it there occurred for him a consecutive 
chain of virtues. No blemish entered any of his actions in religion. No aspect 
of his merit, as we have recorded it, puts any limitation on the ultimate in 
qualities of faith and in the virtues of Islam. This should also be associated 
with his marvellous miracles which confounded nature. He is such that there 
cannot be found an equal to him except for a prophet who has been sent (with a 
message) and an angel who has been brought into close proximity (with Allah), 
and such as are associated with them in the degree of their virtues in the eyes 
of Allah, may He be praised. With regard to those who oppose these three 
categories, traditional knowledge (‘ada) follows a contrary (path to them) with 
the agreement of those who have reason (to think), tongues (to speak) and are 
aware of the traditions (‘adat). We ask Allah for success and by Him we will be 
protected from error. 


133

[[p 23]]
CHAPTER V 


LEGAL DECISIONS OF THE 
COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


As for the reports which have demonstrated his outstanding quality in the legal 
decisions (he has given) with regard to religion and the laws (he has propounded) 
for which all the believers were in need, they are too numerous to be counted 
and too illustrious to be dealt with (properly), as are those which have been 
confirmed with regard to his precedence in traditional knowledge (‘i/m), his 
supremacy over the community in gnosis (ma ‘rifa) and understanding. (There 
are many reports that) the scholars of the Companions (frequently) used to resort 
to him in matters which were difficult for them and they would seek his help 
in them and submit to his judgement concerning them. I will endeavour to 
put forward a brief summary which will give some indication of the others, if 
Allah, the Exalted, wills. 


A. (JUDGEMENTS OF THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL DURING THE 
LIFETIME OF THE PROPHET) 


With the regard to this, there are those of his judgements while the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was alive which have been reported 
by the transmitters of tradition from the non-Shi‘a (‘Gmma) and from the Shi‘a 
(khassa). In these (the Prophet) guided him and attested to the correctness of the 
decisions which he gave. He called attention to his goodness and praised him 
for it. Thus he separated him from the rest of men as a result of his outstanding 
merit in that. In this way he showed his entitlement to authority after him and 
the necessity for him to take precedence over others with regard to the position 
of the Imamate. Similarly, revelation has taken that (matter) within its compass 
in terms of the evidence for its meaning and what can be understood from the 
interpretation of its contents. Thus Allah, the Mighty and High, says: Js not he 
who guides you to truth more entitled to be followed than one who does not go 
aright unless he is guided? For what is wrong with you, how do you judge? (X 
35). Then there is His statement, may He be praised: Are those who know and 
those who do not know equal? Only those who possess hearts (ulti al-albab) 
remember (XXXIX 9). There is the statement by Him, the Mighty and High, in 
the story of Adam when the angel said: Are you creating in it one who will spread 
corruption there and shed blood while we (constantly) repeat Your praise and 
hallow You? He replied: I know what you do not know. And He taught Adam all 
the names (or things) and then He presented them to the angels. He said: Tell 


134 


me the names of these if you are truthful. They answered: May You be praised, 
we have no knowledge except what You have taught us. You are the One Who 
knows and the Wise. Then He said: Adam, tell them their names. When he had 
told them their names, He said to them: Have I not told you that I know the 
unseen in the heavens and the earth and I know what you are showing and what 
you are keeping hidden (II 30-33). Allah, the Exalted, informed the angels that 
Adam was more entitled to the vice-regency (khilafa) than they were because 
He had informed him of the names and he was the most excellent of them in 
knowledge of things informed (to him). He, may His names be hallowed, (also) 
said in the story of Talut: Their prophet said to them: Allah has sent Talut to you 
as a king. They asked: Shall he have (the right of) kingship over us while we are 
more entitled to kingship than he is? He has not brought any extent of wealth. He 
replied: Allah has chosen him to be over you and has increased him extensively 
in knowledge and substance. Allah bestows His kingship on whom He wishes. 
Allah is (all) embracing and One Who knows (II 247). 


Thus (Allah) made the manner of his right to precedence over them, by virtue 
of what He granted him in the scope of his knowledge and substance, and 
His having chosen him above all of them. These verses are in agreement with 
rational evidence that the one who is more knowledgeable has more right in the 
area of the Imamate than those who do not equal him in knowledge. Thus they 
also give evidence for the necessity of the precedence of the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, over all the rest of the Muslims in the succession 
(khilafa) of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and in 
the Imamate of the community because of his precedence, peace be on him, over 
them in knowledge and wisdom and their falling short of his rank in that. 


1. His JUDGEMENTS IN YEMEN 


Among those reports which have been handed down about his legal decisions, 
peace be on him, while the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was 
still alive and present, is the following: 

When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, wanted to 
invest him with the office of judge in Yemen and to send him to them so that he 
might teach them the laws, explain to them what was permitted and forbidden, 
and judge for them according to the laws of the Qur’an, the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, asked him: “Apostle of Allah, you are inviting me to 
(undertake) the office of judge while I am still a young man without knowledge 
of all (the matters of) judgement.” 


“Come nearer to me,” he told him. He went nearer and he struck him in the chest 


135 


with his hand and said: “O Allah, guide his heart and strengthen his tongue.” 


The Commander of the Faithful reported: “I never doubted in my ability to judge 
between two men after that occurrence.” 


When the administrative house (dar) in Yemen was occupied by him and he 
began to take care of the office of judging and giving decisions among the 
Muslims, which the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
had entrusted to him, two men were brought before him. Between them was a 
maidservant over whom both of them had equal rights of possession as a slave. 
They had both been ignorant of the prohibition of having intercourse with her 
and had both had intercourse with her in the same month of her menstrual cycle. 
(They had done this) in the belief that this was permissible, because of their recent 
acceptance of Islam and their lack of knowledge of the laws which were in the 
law of Islam (shari‘a). The maidservant had become pregnant and given birth to 
a boy. They were in dispute as to (who was the father). 


He drew lots with their names on for the boy. The lot fell upon one of them. He 
assigned the boy to him but required him to pay half his value as if he had been 
a slave of his partner. He said: “If I knew that you had both embarked on what 
you have done after the proof had been given you of it being prohibited, I would 
have exerted (every effort) to punish you both.” 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, learned of this case. 
He accepted it and he acknowledged the judgement on them within Islam. He 
said: “Praise be to Allah Who has created among us, the family (ah al-bayt), 
one who can judge according to the practice and method of David in judging.” In 
that he was referring to judgement according to inspiration (i/ham) which would 
have been taken in the sense of revelation (wahy) and the sending down of a text 
for it if there had been any explanation of such (an occurrence ever having taken 
place). 


Among the cases brought before him, peace be on him, while he was in Yemen, 
is the report of (the case in which) a pit was dug for a lion. It fell into it and the 
people gathered round to look at it. One man was standing on the edge of the pit. 
His foot slipped and he hung on to another man. That man hung on to a third, 
and the third to a fourth. They all fell into the pit and were all killed. He, peace 
be on him, gave the judgement that the first was the prey of the lion and he (and 
his family) were responsible for the payment of a third of the blood-price for the 
second. Similarly the second (and his family) were responsible for the payment 
of a third of the blood-price for the third and the third (and his family) were 


136 


responsible for the payment of a third of the blood-price for the fourth. 


The report of that reached the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. He said: “Abi al-Hasan has given judgement in their regard with the 
judgement of Allah, the Mighty and High above (on) His throne.” 


Then there was brought before him (the case in which) it is reported that a girl 
was carrying (another) girl on her shoulder in a game. Another girl came along 
and pinched the girl who was carrying (the other one). She jumped because of 
being pinched. The girl who was being carried fell and broke her neck. She died. 
He, peace be on him, judged that the girl who did the pinching was, responsible 
for a third of the blood-price, the girl who jumped was responsible for (another) 
third of it and the remaining third was inoperative because the riding of the girl, 
who broke her neck, on the girl who jumped was in fun. 


The report of that reached the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. He accepted it and testified to the correctness of it. 


He, peace be on him, gave judgement on (a case where) a wall had fallen on 
some people and killed them. Among their number there was a slave-woman and 
a free woman. The free woman had had a small child, born of a free man, and the 
slave-woman had had a small child, born of a slave. The free child could not be 
distinguished from the slave child. 


He drew lots between them; he adjudged freedom as belonging to the one of 
them for whom the lot for freedom was drawn and he adjudged slavery for the 
one for whom the lot for slavery was drawn. Then he freed (the slave child) 
and made him retainer (lit. client mawld@) (of the free child). In this way he also 
decided about their inheritance with the decision going in accordance with (the 
norm for) the free one and his retainer. 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, accepted his 


judgement in this decision and he declared its correctness through his acceptance 
of it, as we have mentioned and described. 


2. A CASE OUTSIDE YEMEN DURING THE LIFE OF THE PROPHET 
Reports have been handed down that two men brought a dispute before the 


Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, about a cow which had killed a 
donkey. 


137 


“Apostle of Allah,” said one of them, “this man’s cow has killed my donkey.” 
“Go to Abt Bakr,” the Apostle of Allah told them, “and ask him about that.” 


They came to Abi Bakr and told him their story. 

“Why have you left the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
and come to me?” he asked them. 

“He told us to do that,” they answered. 

“A beast has killed a beast and therefore its owner has no responsibility (for the 
dead beast),” he said. 


They returned to the Apostle of Allah, the blessing of Allah be on him, and told 
him of that. He said to them: “Go to ‘Umar b. al-Khattab and tell him your story. 
Ask him for a judgement about that.” 


They went to him and told him their story. He asked: “Why have you left the 
Apostle of Allah and come to me?” 

“He told us to do that,” they answered. 

“Why did he not tell you to go to Abt Bakr?” he asked. 

“We were ordered to do that,” they told him, “and we went to him.” 

“What did he say to you about this case?” he enquired. 

“He said such and such,” they replied. 

“My view agrees with Abt Bakr’s,” he said. 


They returned to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and gave 
him a report of that. He said: “Go to ‘Alt b. Abt Talib so that he may judge 
between you.” 


They went to him and told him their story. 

“If the cow entered into the stable of the donkey, then the owner (of the cow) 
must pay the price of the donkey to the owner (of the donkey),” he declared. “But 
if the donkey entered into the stable of the cow, and (the cow) killed it, the owner 
(of the donkey) has no payment due from the owner (of the cow).” 


They went back to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and told 
him about his judgement between them. He, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, said: “‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, has given judgement between 
you with the judgement of Allah, the Exalted.” Then he said: “Praise be to Allah 
who has created among us, the family (ah/ al-bayt), one who can give judgement 
in the manner of David.” 


Some of the non-Shi‘a (‘amma) authorities report that this judgement between 


138 


the two men was made by the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, in 
Yemen. 


B. Judgements of the Commander of the Faithful during the Rule of 
Abi Bakr 


(This is) a brief summary of the legal decisions given by (the Commander of 
the Faithful), peace be on him, during the rule of Abi Bakr. Among these is the 
account which has been handed down by both non-Shi‘a and Shi‘a authorities: 


Aman was brought before Abt Bakr. He had drunk wine, so Abt Bakr wanted to 
administer the prescribed punishment (/add) on him. However the man pleaded: 
“T drank it without having knowledge that it was forbidden because I grew up 
among people who regarded it as lawful. I did not know that it was forbidden 
until now.” 


Abi Bakr became unable to deliver a decision in the matter. He did not know 
the way to judge him. Some of those present advised him to seek for information 
from the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, about the decision in that 
matter. He sent someone to ask him about it. 


The Commander of the Faithful advised: “Tell two trustworthy Muslims to go 
around the gatherings of the Emigrants and Ansar to ask them whether any of 
them had recited to (the man) the verse (of the Qur’an) forbidding (wine) or 
had reported it to him on the authority of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family. If two of them give testimony of that, then he should carry 
out the prescribed punishment on him. If no one can give testimony on that, he 
should tell him to repent and let him go.” 


Abt Bakr did that. Not one of the Emigrants and Ansar gave evidence that they 
had recited the verse (of the Qur’an) forbidding (wine) or had reported it to him 
on the authority of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 
So he told him to repent and let him go. He submitted to (the authority of) ‘Ali 
in judging it. 

ok 2 2 2K 3 


They have reported that Abt Bakr was asked about Allah’s words: Fakihatan wa 
abban (LXXX 31). He did not know the meaning of a/-abb in the Qur’an and 
said: “Any sky which looks down (on me) or any land which holds me up. .. . 
rather what shall I do, if I say something about the Book of Allah, the Exalted, 
which I do not know. As for al-fakiha, (fruit), we know its meaning but as for 


139 


al-abb Allah knows better.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was informed of that statement 
of his about it. “May Allah be praised, did he know that a/-abb is fresh herbage 
(kala’) and pasture (mar ‘an) and that His words, wa fakihatan wa abban, are 
the enumeration by Allah, the Exalted, of his favours to His creatures through 
the things which He has provided for them to eat and created for them and their 
animals; (these are some of) the things by which their spirits are kept alive and 


their bodies exist.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


Abi Bakr was asked about al-kalala (IV 176). He answered: “I will give my 
opinion about it. If ] am right, then it is from Allah. If am wrong, then it is from 
myself and from Satan.” 


The Commander of the Faithful was informed of that. He said: “What makes 
him satisfied with opinion in this situation? Did he not know that al-kaldla is 
brothers and sisters from (the same) father and mother, and from just the father 
and also from the mother in the same way. Allah, the Mighty and High, said: 
If they seek a decision from you, say: Allah gave a decision to you in terms of 
the brothers and sisters (al-kalala). If a man dies without children and he has a 
sister she shall have half of what he left (IV 176). He, the Mighty (also) said: Jf 
aman is succeeded by brothers and sisters (al-kalala) or by a wife while he had 
a brother or a sister, each one will have a sixth. If there are more than that, then 
they shall have a third (IV 12).” 


28 2K 2K 


The report is handed down that one of the Jewish rabbis came to Abt Bakr and 
said: “You are the successor (khalifa) of this community.” 

“Yes,” he replied. 

“We find in the Torah that the successors (Ahulafa’) of prophets are the most 
knowledgeable of the communities,” he said. “Therefore tell me about Allah, the 
Exalted. Where is He? In heaven or on earth?” 

“In heaven on the throne,” answered Abi Bakr. 

“Then I should consider that the earth is without Him and I should consider 
according to this statement that He is in one place and not in another,” the Jew 
stated. 

“That is doctrine of atheists (zanddiqa),” declared Abt Bakr. “Go away from me 
or I will kill you.” 


The rabbi turned away in amazement and mockery at Islam. The Commander of 


140 


the Faithful, peace be on him, met him. 


“Jew, I know what you have asked about and did not get an answer for,” he 
said. “We say that Allah, the Mighty and High, is the whereness of whereness, 
there is no where for Him. He avoids any place containing Him while He is in 
every place, without contact with anything and without being next to anything. 
He encompasses knowledge of what is there and nothing of it is outside His 
provenance. I am telling you about what is written in one of your books which 
attests the truth of what I have told you. If you know it, do you believe in it?” 
“Yes,” replied the Jew. 


He said: “Didn’t you find in one of your books that Moses, the son of ‘Imran, 
peace be on him, was sitting down one day when an angel came to him from the 
East. Moses asked him: ‘From where have you come?’ It answered: ‘From Allah, 
the Mighty and High.’ Then an angel came to him from the West. He asked: 
‘From where have you come?’ It answered: ‘From Allah, the Mighty and High.’ 
Then another angel came to him and said: ‘I have come to you from the Seventh 
Heaven, from (being with) Allah, the Mighty and High.’ Another angel came to 
him and said: ‘I have come to you from the Seventh Firmament, from (being 
with) Allah, the Mighty and High.’ Then Moses said: ‘May Allah be praised, no 
place is without Him and He is not nearer to one place than another.” 


The Jew replied: “I testify that this is the truth and you have more right to 
(occupy) the place of your Prophet than the one who has control over it.” 


Reports like these are numerous. 
28 2K OK 2K 


C. REPORTS OF THE JUDGEMENTS OF (THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL) 
DURING THE RULE OF ‘UMAR B. AL-KHATTAB 


Among these is what has been handed down by non-Shi‘a (‘@mma) and Shi‘a 
(khassa) authorities concerning the story of Qudama b. Maz‘in. The latter 
had drunk wine and ‘Umar wanted to carry out the prescribed punishment on 
him. However, Qudama had said: “It is not necessary to give me the prescribed 
punishment because Allah has said: There is no crime in what those who have 
believed and performed good works have tasted as long as they have feared 
Allah, believed and performed good works (V 93).” 

So ‘Umar withdrew the prescribed punishment. 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, learned of that. He went to 


141 


‘Umar and said: “You failed to administer the prescribed punishment on Qudama 
for drinking wine.” 
“He recited the verse of Qur’an to me,” said ‘Umar and recited it. 


“Qudama is not one of the people (referred to) in the verse” retorted the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. “Nor can anyone use it (as a 
pretext) for committing actions which Allah has forbidden. Those who have 
believed and performed good actions cannot make what is forbidden lawful. 
Send for Qudama and make him repent from what he said. If he repents, then 
administer the prescribed punishment on him. If he does not repent, kill him, for 
he has abandoned the religion (milla).” 


Then ‘Umar became aware (of the real situation). Qudama knew of the 
discussion and (publicly) showed his repentance and his withdrawal (of his 
assertion). ‘Umar withdrew the punishment of death but he did not know how he 
should administer the prescribed punishment on him. He asked the Commander 
of the Faithful, peace be on him: “Show me how the prescribed punishment 
(should be administered) on him.” 


“Give him the prescribed punishment of eighty (lashes),” he said. “For when the 
drinker of wine drinks it, he becomes drunk. When he becomes drunk, he talks 
nonsense. When he talks nonsense, he spreads calumnies.” 


Therefore ‘Umar had him given eighty lashes and he gave judgement according 


to his advice in that matter. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


It is reported that during the time of ‘Umar, a man seduced a mad woman. 
Evidence for that was established against her. Therefore ‘Umar ordered her to 
be flogged according to the prescribed punishment. She was brought past the 
Commander of the Faithful (on her way) to be flogged. 


“Why is the mad woman of the family of so-and-so being dragged along?” he 
asked. 


“A man seduced her and fled and the evidence for fornication has been 
established against her. So ‘Umar ordered her to be flogged,” he was told. 


“Take her back to him,” he told them, “and ask him: Don’t you know that this is 


a mad woman and the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family has 
said: The order (of punishment) should be withheld from the mad person until 


142 


he recovers. Her reason and her soul have been overcome.” 


She was taken back to ‘Umar and he was told what the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, had said. He said: “Allah has rescued (me) from it. I 
was almost destroyed through whipping her.” And he withdrew the prescribed 


punishment from her. 
2 2 2 2 2k 


It is reported that a pregnant woman who had committed adultery was brought 
before ‘Umar. He ordered her to be stoned. The Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, told him: “Take care that you have a (right to take) action 
against her, that is not a (right to take) action against what is in her womb. For 
Allah, the Exalted, says: Nor does any bearer of a burden bear the burden of 
another (VI 164).” 


“T have not lived (to see) a problem with which Abi al-Hasan is not (competent 
to deal),” said ‘Umar. Then he asked: ““What shall I do with her?” 


“Take care of her until she gives birth,” he said. “When she has given birth 
and you have found someone to nurse her child, then administer the prescribed 
punishment on her.” * 


Thus was ‘Umar relieved of (his cares). In that decision, he relied on the 


Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 
3 2 2 2 2k 


It is reported that (‘Umar) summoned a woman who had been conversing with 
men at her (house). When his messengers came to her, she was frightened and 
afraid. She had a miscarriage and her child fell to the ground crying but then 
died. 


‘Umar was informed of that. He gathered the Companions of the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, together and asked them about the 
law concerning that. They all said: “We consider that you were acting correctly. 
You only wanted good and there is no (blame for) anything against you in that.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was sitting without saying 
anything about that. ‘Umar asked him: “What is your view about this, Abii al- 
Hasan?” 

“You have heard what they said,” he answered. 

“But what is your view?” he insisted. 


143 


“The people have said what you heard,” he replied. 
“T adjure you to give your view,” he said. 


“If people have (been trying to) come close to you, they have deceived you,” 
he said. “If they thought about their advice then they have disregarded (the fact 
that) the blood-wit is required of you as the one responsible for the death and 
you thereby incur the blood-wit (‘agila), because the killing of the child was (as 
a result of) a mistake connected with you.” 


“By Allah, you have advised differently from them,” he said. “By Allah, I will 
not delay until the blood-wit is paid by (my clan) Banu ‘Adi” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, had brought that about. 
28K OK KR 


It is reported that during the time of ‘Umar, two women were disputing over a 
child. Each of them claimed that it was her child without any proof but no one 
else contested their claim to it. The decision with regard to that was not clear to 
‘Umar. He resorted to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, with 
regard to it. 


He summoned the two women and warned them both, making them both afraid. 
But they both persisted in their dispute and difference. In the face of their both 
persisting in dispute, he, peace be on him, said: “Bring me a saw.” 


“What are you going to do?” the two women asked. 
“T will cut it into two halves,” he said, “and each of you can have a half.” 


The one remained silent but the other said: “O Allah, O Allah, Abi al-Hasan, if 
there is no escape from that, then let her have it.” 


“Allah is greater (Allahu akbar),” he said. “This is your son not hers. If it had 
been her son, she would have had pity on him and been anxious (about him).” 


The other woman admitted that the right (to the child) belonged to her 
colleague and the child was not hers. Thus was ‘Umar relieved (of his cares) and 
he blessed the Commander of the Faithful for the trouble that he had saved him 
from through (his) judgement. 


3 28 28 2 2K 


[It is reported on the authority of Yanus, on the authority of al-Hasan:] 


144 


A woman was brought before ‘Umar. She had given birth six months earlier 
and he now intended to stone her. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him, said to him: “If you quarrel with the Book of Allah, I will dispute with you. 
Allah, the exalted says: The (period) of pregnancy and weaning (of a child) is 
thirty months (XLVI 15). And He, the High, (also) says: Mothers suckle their 
children for two complete years for anyone who wants to carry out (the full 
period of) suckling (II 233). When the woman has carried out the suckling for 
two years, and the (period of) pregnancy and suckling (of the child) is thirty 
months... . . .. At the moment (she has only fulfilled) the responsibility (of 
suckling) for six months (and therefore cannot be killed).” 


‘Umar freed the woman and confirmed the decision concerning that. The 
Companions acted according to it and the Successors (al-tabi‘tin) (to the 


Companions) and those who adopted it right up to the present time. 
28 2K OK 


It is reported that witnesses gave evidence against a woman that they had found 
her at one of the watering places of the Bedouin and a man who was not her 
husband (ba ‘) was having intercourse with her. ‘Umar ordered her to be stoned 
as she had a husband (ba‘/). She declared: “O Allah, You know that I am 
innocent.” 

“Do you impugn the witnesses as well?” remarked ‘Umar. 


“Let them bring her back and let them question her,” said the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him. “Perhaps she has an excuse.” 


She was brought back and questioned about the circumstances (of what she had 
done). She said: “My family had some camels. I went out with my family’s 
camels and took with me some water. There was no milk in the camels. A 
neighbour of ours had camels with him and there was milk in his camels. My 
water was used up and I asked him to give me a drink. He refused to give me 
a drink unless I submitted myself to him. I refused. When my life was about to 
depart I submitted myself to him unwillingly.” 


“Allah is greater (Al/ahu akbar),” declared the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him. “Whoever is compelled (to do something) without desiring (to do it) is 
not a transgressor and no sin is (counted) against him (II 173).” 


When ‘Umar heard that he freed her. 


28 2K 2K KR 


145 


Among the reports about (the Commander of the Faithful), peace be on him, with 
regard to the idea of giving judgement, and the soundness of (his) opinion, his 
guidance of the people to their (true) interests and his realisation of what would 
be likely to corrupt the people without his informing them of the proper course 
is the following: 

[Shababa b. Suwar has reported on the authority of Abt Bakr al-Hudhali, who 
said: I heard one of our scholars saying: ] 

The foreigners (a ‘ajim) from Hamdhan, al-Rayy, Isfahan, Qimus and Nahawand 
sent letters to each other. They sent messengers to one another (saying): “The 
king of the Arabs who has brought them their religion and produced their Book 
has died.” They were referring to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and his 
family. “Their king after him was an insignificant king and he has died.” They 
were referring to Abt Bakr. “Another arose after him who has lived longer so 
that he has reached as far as you in your lands and he has sent his soldiers to 
attack you.” They were referring to ‘Umar b. al-Khattab. “He will not desist from 
you until you expel those of his soldiers who are in your land, go against him 
and attack him in his land. Therefore make an alliance (to do) this and make a 
covenant (to carry) it (out).” 


When the report (of this) came to the Muslims in Kifa, they sent it to ‘Umar b. 
al-Khattab. When the report reached him, he was very afraid on account of it. 
He went to the mosque of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. He went up on the pulpit and praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: 
“Men of the Emigrants and the Ansar, Satan has gathered groups (of men) against 
you. With them he has dared to attempt to put out the light of Allah. Indeed the 
people of Hamdhan, the people of Isfahan, the people of al-Rayy and Qumus, 
of Nahawand, despite difference in language, colour and religion, have made a 
covenant and an alliance to drive your brother Muslims from their land and to 
come against you and attack you in your land. Give me advice but be brief and 
not too lengthy in words This is a day for (such advice), after which there will be 
a day (to speak at greater length).” 


They began to consult. Talha b. ‘Ubayd Allah stood up - he was one of the 
orators of Quraysh. He praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: “Commander 
of the faithful, affairs have begun to bridle you; times have brought hardship to 
you; misfortunes have tested you and experiences have taught you. You, the one 
blessed with authority (amr) and fortunate in nature, have been given authority. 
Therefore you have knowledge, you have been given information and you know 
it well. You have only avoided (evil) consequences of Allah’s decision as a 
result of choosing good. So attend to this matter according to your own view and 
do not avoid that.” Then he sat down. 


146 


“Speak,” ‘Umar urged (the people). 


‘Uthman b. ‘Affan stood up. He praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: 
“T think that you should direct the Syrians from Syria and the Yemenis from 
Yemen, and that you should go with the inhabitants of these two sanctuaries 
(Mecca and Medina) and with the people of the two camp towns of Kifa and 
Basra. Then all the polytheists would meet all the Muslims. Commander of the 
faithful, you would not seek to survive after the Arabs, nor would you enjoy 
with any delight the world, nor would you seek refuge from it in a well-fortified 
fortress. Therefore attend to (the matter) with your own view and do not avoid 
that.” Then he sat down. 


“Speak,” ‘Umar urged (the people). 


The Commander of the Faithful, ‘Alt b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, spoke 
praising Allah until he had finished the introductory praises and he glorified 
Him and called for blessings on His Apostle, may Allah bless Him and his 
family. Then he said: “If you sent the Syrians from Syria, the Byzantines 
would come against their children. If you sent the Yemenis from Yemen, the 
Abyssinians would come against their children. If you sent (the people) from the 
two sanctuaries, the bedouin would rebel against us on (every) flank and side. 
Thus the families of Arabs which you leave behind you are more important to 
you than what is in front of you. As for what you have mentioned of the number 
of foreigners and your fear of their groupings, we never fought in the time of the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, with regard to number. 
We only used to fight with regard to the help (of Allah). As for what you have 
been informed of their gathering to come against the Muslims, Allah is more 
averse to their coming than you are to it. It is more appropriate for Him to change 
what He is averse to. When the foreigners look at you, they say (to themselves) 
that this is the man of the Arabs. If you break him, you break the Arabs and it 
would be much more difficult for (them to continue) their eager (advance). Thus 
you united them against yourself and those who did not use to support them are 
(now) supporting them. However, I consider that you should make them remain 
in their camp-town and write to the people of Basra. Let them divide into three 
groups. Let one of their groups look after their offspring as guards of them. 
Let another group undertake (the task of resisting) the people who have made 
this covenant, to break them up. Let (the third) group go to their brothers as 
reinforcements for them.” 


“This is the best view,” said ‘Umar. “I would like to follow it.” Then he began to 
repeat the words of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, setting it 


147 


out in admiration of it and as his choice. 


[Al-Shaykh al-Mufid, may Allah be pleased with him, said:] 

Consider, may Allah support you, this view which was announced with the merit 
of sound judgement when the thoughtful leaders (alii al-albab wa-al- ‘ilm) were 
in dispute. Reflect upon the success which Allah brought to the Commander of 
the Faithful, peace be on him, in all circumstances and the way the people used 
to resort to him in difficult matters. Then add that to what has been established 
of his merit in religion which was not possible for the other prominent people so 
that they were in need of him because of his knowledge. You will find out about 
it in the chapter on miracles, which we have already mentioned. May Allah be 
the friend of success. 


This has been a brief outline of the judgements delivered by (the Commander 
of the Faithful), peace be on him, during the rule of ‘Umar b. al-Khattab. There 
were similar (judgements) during the rule of ‘Uthman b. ‘Affan. 


D. REPORTS OF THE JUDGEMENTS OF THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 
DURING THE RULE OF ‘UTHMAN B. ‘AFFAN. 


Among these is the report which non-Shi‘a (‘amma) and Shi‘a (khassa) 
historians (naqalat al-athar) relate. 

An old man married a woman. The woman became pregnant but the old man 
claimed that he had not had intercourse with her and denounced her pregnancy. 
The matter was unclear to ‘Uthman. He asked the woman: “Did the old man 
make you lose your virginity while (you) were a virgin?” 

“No,” she replied. 

“Administer the prescribed punishment on her,” ordered ‘Uthman. 


“A woman has two orifices,” the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
interposed, “the orifice for the menstrual flow and the orifice for urine. Perhaps 
the old man was close to her and his semen managed to flow into her menstrual 
orifice. Then she became pregnant through him.” 


He asked the man about that and he answered: “I used to discharge semen while 
kissing her but without ever going to the extent of making her lose her virginity.” 


“The pregnancy is due to him,” declared the Commander of the Faithful, peace 


be on him, “and the child is his child. I consider that he should be punished for 
his (wrongful) denunciation.” 


148 


‘Uthman carried out his judgement in that and was amazed at him. 
28 OK OK 


They have reported that a man had a concubine and he gave her a child. Then 
he separated from her and married her to one of his slaves. The master died. 
She was freed by virtue of her being in the possession of her son. Her son also 
inherited her husband. The son died and she inherited her husband from her 
child. They came before ‘Uthman as a result of a dispute. She was claiming: 
“This is my slave.” He was claiming: “She is my wife and I will not release her 
(from the marriage).” 


“This is a difficult problem,” said ‘Uthman. 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was present. He said: “Ask her 
whether he has had intercourse with her after her inheritance.” 
“No,” she replied. 


“If I was aware that he had done that, I would have punished him,” he said. “Go. 
He is your slave without any rights over you. If you wish to keep possession of 


him, or to free him, or to sell him, that is your right.” 
2k ok 2 2k ok 


They reported that in the time of ‘Uthman a slave woman who was in the 
process of buying her freedom (makatiba) committed fornication. She 
had already purchased three-quarters of her freedom. ‘Uthman asked the 
Commander of the Faithful whether he should have her flogged according to 
the amount (required) for a free woman or the amount required for a slave. He 
also asked Zayd b. Thabit. The latter said that she should be flogged according 
to the amount (required) for a slave. “How can she be flogged according to the 
amount (required) for a slave when she has already purchased three-quarters of 
her freedom?” asked the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. “Should 
you not whip her according to the amount (required) for a free woman as she is 
much more of that?” 


“Tf that is the case,” said Zayd, “then she ought to inherit according to the amount 
(required) for a free woman.” 


“Indeed, that is necessary,” replied the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him. 


Zayd was silenced but ‘Uthman disagreed with the Commander of the Faithful, 


149 


peace be on him. He followed Zayd’s statement without paying attention to the 


proof which had been given to him (by the Commander of the Faithful). 
ok 2k 2K 3 


Mentioning further examples such as these would make the book unduly long. 
However the reports about them are well known. 


E. REPORTS OF THE JUDGEMENTS OF (THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL), 
PEACE BE ON HIM, AFTER THE PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE OF THE GENERAL 
POPULACE TO HIM AND THE DEATH OF ‘UTHMAN 


The traditionists (ah/ al-naq!l wa hamalat al-athar) report that a woman gave 
birth on the bed of her husband to a child who had two heads and bodies 
attached to one waist. His family were confused as to whether it was one or two. 
They went to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, to ask him about 
that so that they might know the law with regard to him. The Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, told them: “Watch him when he goes to sleep. Then 
wake up one of the bodies and heads. If they both wake up at the same time, then 
they are a single human being. If one of them wakes up and the other remains 
asleep, they are two persons and their rights in inheritance are the rights of two 


persons.” 
ok 2 2k 2K 


[Al-Hasan b. ‘Ali al-‘Abdi reported on the authority of Sa‘d b. Tarif, on the 
authority of al-Asbagh b. Nubata, who said:] 

While Shurayh was in a session of judgements, a person came to him and said: 
“Abu Umayya, let me speak to you privately, for I have a (great) need.” 


He ordered those around him to leave him and they went away. Only his close 
associates (khadssa) who attended him remained. He said: “Say what your need 
is.” 


“Abu Umayya,” (the person) told him, “I have what men have and what women 
have. The judgement rests with you about whether I am a man or a woman.” 


He answered: “I have heard a decision about that from the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, which I remember. Tell me from which of the two 
orifices does your urine come?” 

“From them both,” answered the person. 


150 


“From which does it (finally) finish?” he asked. 
“From them both together,” was the reply. 


Shurayh was amazed. 


The person said: “I will tell you something (else) about my affair which is (even) 
more amazing.” 
“What is that?” asked Shurayh. 


“My father married me (to a man) on the assumption that I was a woman. I 
became pregnant from my husband and I bought a slave girl to look after me. I 
had intercourse with her and she became pregnant from me.” 


Shurayh struck one of his hands against the other in amazement and said: “This 
is a matter which must be taken before the Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him, for I have no knowledge of the ruling concerning it.” 


He got up and the person followed him and those present with him. He went in to 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. He told the story to him and the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, summoned the person. He asked 
about (the story) which Shurayh had told him. (The person) admitted it. 


“Who is your husband?” he asked. 
“So-and-so b. so-and-so,” was the reply, “and he is present in the town.” 


He had him summoned and asked him about what (the other) had said. 
“Tt is true,” he said. 


“You have to be braver than a lion-hunter when you face this sort of situation,” 
he said. Then he called Qanbar, his retainer (mawi/d) and said: “Take this person 
into a house and with (the person) four just women and order them to strip 
(the person) naked and to count the ribs after making sure that the pudenda are 
covered.” The man (i.e. Qanbar) said: “Commander of the Faithful, men and 
women will not be secure from this person.” 


So (the Commander of the Faithful) ordered that a straw-dealer should cover him 
with straw and he left him alone in a house. Then he went into it and counted the 
ribs. There were seven on the left side and eight on the right side. He declared: 
“This is a man.” 


He ordered his hair to be cut and that he be dressed in a hat, sandals and a cloak 


151 


(rida’). He separated him from his (former) husband. 


[Some traditionists reported:] When the person made the claim he made about 
two orifices, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, ordered two just 
Muslims to go to an empty house and take the person with them. He ordered two 
mirrors to be set up one of them facing the pudenda of the person and the other 
facing the (first) mirror. He ordered the person to show its nakedness by facing 
the mirror so that the two just men could not see it (directly). He ordered the two 
just men to look into the mirror facing (the first) mirror. When the two just men 
realised the truth of what the person had claimed about (having) two orifices, he 
considered its status (to be established) by counting the ribs. When he declared 
him to be a man, he ignored his claims of being pregnant as being a mistake and 
he did not act in accordance with it. He declared the pregnancy of the slave girl 


as due to him and he associated him with it. 
ok 2 ok 2 2 


They reported that one day the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
went into the mosque and found a young man weeping (there) with some people 
around him. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, asked about it. 
He said: “Shurayh has judged a case against me and he has not done me justice.” 


“What is (the nature of) your affair?” he asked. 

“These people” he said and he indicated a group who were present, “took my 
father out on a journey with them. They came back but he did not come back. 
I asked them about him and they said that he had died. I asked them about the 
money (mal) that he had taken with him and they said: ‘We do not know of 
any money.’ Then Shurayh made them swear an oath and ordered me to stop 
interfering with them.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, told Qanbar: “Gather the 
people and summon the shurat al-khamis.”” 


Then he sat down and summoned the group (to come before him) and the 
young man with them. He asked him about what he had said and he repeated his 
claim and began to cry, saying: “By Allah, I accuse them of (killing) my father, 
Commander of the Faithful. They tricked him so that they could take him with 
them out of a desire to (get) his money.” 


1 According to Ahmad b. Abi ‘Abd Allah al-Barqi, the Shurtat al-Khamis were six thousand of 
‘Alt’s followers who had pledged themselves to serve him until death, a/-Rija/, (Tehran 1342 
A.H. S.), 3. They can be regarded as a combination of bodyguard, police force and front-line 
soldiers. 


152 


Then, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, questioned the people. 
They told him exactly what they had told Shurayh: “The man died and we do not 
know of any money of his.” 


Then he looked into their faces and said to them: “What do you think? Do you 
think that I do not know what you have done with the father of this youth? Then 
I would have little knowledge.” 


He ordered them to separate from each other and they separated from each other 
within the mosque. Each one of them was made to stand next to one of the pillars 
in the mosque. Next he summoned ‘Ubayd Allah b. Abi Rafi‘, his scribe at that 
time, and told him to sit down. Then he called one of them. He told him: “Tell 
me on which day did you leave your houses while the father of this boy was with 
you? And (do it) without raising your voice.” 

“On such and such a day,” he said. 

“Write it down,” he told ‘Ubayd Allah. 

“In which month was it?” he asked. 

“In such and such a month,” was the answer. 

“Write it down,” he instructed. 

“In which year?” 

“In such and such a year.” 

“Write it down.” 

‘Ubayd Allah wrote all that down. 

“Of what sickness did he die?” he asked. 

“Of such and such a sickness.” 

“In which place did he die?” 

“In such and such a place.” 

“Who washed and shrouded his corpse?” 

“So-and-so.” 

“With what did you shroud him?” 

“With such and such.” 

“Who said the prayer over him?” 

“So-and-so.” 

“Who put him into the grave?” 

“So-and-so.” 

‘Ubayd Allah b. Abi Rafi‘ was writing all that down. When he came to the 
statement about the burial, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
said: “Allah is greater (Allahu akbar).” (He said it) in a way that the people in 
the mosque could hear. Then he ordered the man to be taken back to his place. 


He summoned another of the men and made him sit close to him. He questioned 


153 


him in the same way as he had questioned the first man and he gave answers 
which disagreed with (the answers of) the first man throughout his interrogation. 
(All the time) ‘Ubayd Allah was writing them down. When he had finished his 
questioning, he said: “Allah is greater,” in a way that the people in the mosque 
could hear. He ordered that the two men be taken out of the mosque to the prison 
but they were to stand and wait at the door. 


He summoned the third and questioned him in the same way as he had 
questioned the first. He gave answers which contradicted what both of them had 
said and he confirmed that to him. He said: “Allah is greater.” Then he ordered 
him to be taken out to his two colleagues. 


He summoned the fourth of the men. His words were confused and he stuttered. 
(The Commander of the Faithful) warned him and made him afraid. (The man) 
confessed that his colleagues had killed the man and taken his money and that 
they had buried him in such and such a place near Kiifa. The Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, said: “Allah is greater.” Then he ordered him to be 
taken to prison. 


He summoned one of the men (already questioned) and said to him: “You have 
claimed that the man died in bed. Yet you killed him. Tell me the truth about your 
situation, otherwise I will punish you as a warning to the others that I should 
be told the truth in your case.” He confessed to killing the man with a similar 
confession to his colleague. 


Then he summoned the rest (of them) and they confessed the murder. They were 
at a loss to do anything. Their statements about the man’s murder and the theft 
of his money concurred. He ordered some of his men to go with some of them to 
the place where they had buried the money and to get it out and hand it over to 
the young man, the son of the murdered man. 


“What do you want (to be done to them) now that you know what they did to 
your father?” he asked him. 


“T want the judgement between us to take place before Allah, the Mighty and 
High,” he said. “So I will spare their blood in this world.” 


Therefore the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, desisted from 


carrying out the prescribed punishment for murder but still punished them 
severely. 


154 


“Commander of the Faithful,” Shurayh asked him, “how (did you manage to 
come to) this decision?” 


He said: “David, peace be on him, passed some boys playing and calling out to 
one of them, ‘Religion is dead.’ The boy would then answer them. David, peace 
be on him, approached them. He said: ‘Boy, what is your name?’ ‘My name 
is Religion is Dead,’ he answered. ‘Who gave you this name?’ David, peace 
be on him, asked. He replied: ‘My mother.’ Then David asked: ‘Where is your 
mother?’ He answered: ‘In her house.’ ‘Go with us to your house,’ said David. 
He went with him to her and brought her out of her house. ‘Maidservant of 
Allah’, he said, ‘what is the name of your son?’ ‘His name is Religion is Dead,’ 
she answered. ‘Who gave him this name?’ David, peace be on him, asked her. 
‘His father,’ she replied. ‘What was the reason for that?’ he asked. She said: ‘He 
went out on a journey with some people while I was pregnant with this boy. The 
people came back but my husband did not come back. I asked them about him 
and they told me that he had died. I asked them about his money and they told me 
that he did not leave any money. I asked them if he had made any instruction in 
his will. They said that he had. He had said that I was pregnant and if I bore a girl 
or a boy, I should name him Religion is Dead. Therefore I named him as I was 
instructed in his will as I did not wish to oppose him.’ David, peace be on him, 
asked her: ‘Do you know the people?’ ‘Yes,’ she replied. He said to her, ‘Come 
with me with these’ - meaning the people who were in front of him. Then he had 
them brought out of their houses. When they were (all) present, he judged them 
according to this judgement. The murder was proved against them and he got the 
money from them. Then he said to her: ‘Maidservant of Allah, name this child of 


yours Religion is Alive.’” 
3 28 2 2 2k 


It is reported that a woman desired a young man and she tried to seduce him but 
the young man refused. She went away and got an egg. She put the white (of the 
egg) on her dress. Then she began to make accusations against the young man 
and had him brought before the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 
She claimed: “This young man has treated me shamefully. He has raped me.” 


She took her dress and showed the white (on it) from the egg, saying: “This is 
his semen on my dress.” 


The young man began to cry, pleading and swearing his innocence from her 
accusations. 


“Order someone to heat water until it is very hot,” the Commander of the 


155 


Faithful, peace be on him, told Qanbar. “Then bring it to me while it is still like 
that.” 


The water was brought and he ordered it to be thrown on the woman’s dress. 
They threw it on it and the water collected up the white of the egg and they came 
together. He ordered it to be taken and given to two of his followers. He said: 
“Taste it and spit it out.” 


They tasted it and found that it (tasted like) egg. He ordered the young man to 


be freed and the woman to be flogged as a punishment for her false accusation. 
3 2k 2 2 2 2 2 2 


[Al-Hasan b. Mahbib reported: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. al-Hajjaj told me: I heard Ibn 
Abi Layla saying:] 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, judged a case which no 
one had dealt with before. That was that two men had travelled together on a 
journey. They sat eating together. One of them took out five loaves of bread and 
the other three. A man passed them and greeted them. They invited him to eat 
and he sat eating with them. When he had finished eating, he put down eight 
dirhams, saying: “This is compensation for your food which I have eaten.” 


The two men began to dispute over it. The one with three loaves said: “This 
(should be shared) between us, half each.” 

“Rather I should have five and you should have three,” said the one with five 
loaves. 


They came before the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and told him 
their story. He said: “This is a matter in which meanness and rivalry is not proper. 


Reconciliation would be better.” 


“T will only be satisfied by the giving of judgement,” said the one who had had 
three loaves. 


“Since you will only be satisfied by the giving of judgement,” said the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, “you have one of the eight and 


your companion seven.” 


“May Allah be praised,” he exclaimed, “how can this matter come to be like 
that?” 


“T have told you,” he said. “Didn’t you have three loaves?” 


156 


“Yes,” he answered. 


“And your companion had five?” 
“Yes.” 


“That is twenty-four (when multiplied) by three,” he said. “So you ate eight, your 
companion eight and your guest eight. Thus he gave you eight dirhams. Seven 
of which belong to your companion (as he supplied seven-eighths of the guest’s 
food) and one to you (as you supplied one-eighth of the guest’s food).” 


The two men departed (reflecting on) the perspicacity of the judgement of their 


case. 
28 2K 2K KR 


The scholars of (religious) practices (siyar) report that during the time of the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, four men drank alcohol. They 
became drunk and began to cut each other with knives. Each of them was 
wounded. An account of their (action) was brought to the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, and he ordered them to be put into prison until they 
became sober. Two of them died in prison but two survived. The families of the 
two (dead) men came to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and 
demanded: “Give us the right to retaliate against these two men, Commander of 
the Faithful. For they have killed two of our colleagues.” 


“How do you know that?” he asked. “Perhaps (the dead men) killed each other.” 
“We do not know,” they answered. “So judge them according to what Allah has 
taught you.” 


He said: “The blood-wit of the two men who were killed is the responsibility of 
the tribes of the four men after the account has been settled by the payment for 
the two who are alive of the blood-wit for their wounds.” 


That was a judgement in a case for which there was no way of establishing the 
truth other than by it. Don’t you see that there was no evidence to distinguish 
the killer from the killed and no evidence of intention to kill? Therefore the 
judgement was made according to the rule of accidental killing and on the basis 


of confusion about (the actions of) the killer and killed. 
TKK 2 2 2K 2 


It is reported that six men went down to the Euphrates and dived into it to play. 
One of them drowned. Two of them testified that the (other) three had made him 


157 


drown while the three testified that the two made him drown. He, peace be on 
him, adjudged the division of the blood-wit into fifths on the five. The two were 
to pay three-fifths according to the amount of testimony against them and the 
three were to pay two-fifths in accord with the amount of testimony against them. 


There was no judgement in that with more right to (be considered) correct than 


the judgement he, peace be on him, gave. 
OK 2K 2 2 2K 3 


They reported that a man was about to die and he bequeathed part of his wealth 
without designating it. His heirs differed on that after his (death). They came 
before the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. He told them to exclude 
one-seventh of the wealth as the bequest and he recited the words of Him, the 
Exalted: It has seven gates, each of which is a divided part (XV 44). 


He, peace be on him, judged (a case) concerning a man who, at his death, had 
made a bequest of a share of his wealth without specifying it. Similarly when 
he died, the heirs disputed about its significance. His judgement to them was to 
take out an eighth of his wealth and he recited the words of Allah, the Exalted: 
The sadagqat (alms tax) is only for the poor and needy. (1X 60). There were eight 


categories for the (sadaqat) and to each category (he gave) a share of the sadagat. 
2K ok 2 2 2 ok 


He, peace be on him, judged a case concerning a man who made a bequest and 
said: “Free every slave of mine who has been long in my possession.” 


When he died, the executor did not know what to do. He asked about that and 
(the Commander of the Faithful) told him to free every slave (of the man) who 
had been in his possession for six months. 


Then he recited His words, Exalted be His name: For the moon we have 
appointed stages until it becomes again like an old dry branch of a palm tree 
(urjtin) (XXVI 39). 


It has been established that the branch of a palm tree only becomes similar to the 


new moon in its strength six months after fruit has been taken from it. 
2 2 2 2 2K 


He gave judgement concerning a man who had made a vow to fast for a time but 
without mentioning any definite time. (He told him) to fast for six months and he 
recited the words of Him, the Mighty and High: /t brings forth its fruit at every 


158 


season by the permission of its Lord. (XIV 25) 


That was every six months (so the time he interpreted to be equivalent to six 


months). 
OK 2 2k 2K 2 


Aman came to him and said: “CCommander of the Faithful, I had some dates. My 
wife rushed (up to me) and took one of them and put it in her mouth. I vowed that 
she would never eat it nor spit it out.” 


He, peace be on him, said: “Let her eat half of it and spit out the other half. Then 


you will be free of your vow.” 
3K 2K 2 2k 2K 


He, peace be on him, gave judgement concerning a man who struck a woman 
and she had a miscarriage (when it was still) an embryo. (He ordered him) to pay 
the blood-wit for it of forty dmars and he recited the words of Him, the Mighty 
and High: We created man from an essence of clay. Then We made him a drop 
in a firm abode. Then We formed the drop into an embryo, and We formed the 
embryo into a clot of blood, and We formed the clot of blood into bones. 
We clothed the bones with flesh. Then we caused it to grow as a final act of 
creation. Blessed be Allah the best of Creators. (XXIII 12-14). He explained that 
(the blood-wit for) the drop was twenty dinars, for the embryo forty dinars, for 
the clot sixty dinars, for the bone before it was established as a creature eighty 
dinars, for the form (of the child) before the soul entered it a hundred dinars. If 


the soul had entered it, then (the blood-wit) was a thousand dinars. 
ok 2 2 2 2 


This has been a sample of the judgements and difficult decisions pronounced 
by (the Commander of the Faithful), peace be on him. No one had given 
judgements on (such cases) before him. Nor did any of the non-Shi‘a (‘amma) 
and Shi‘a (Ahassa) know anything about them. His natural disposition (‘itra) 
made him able to deal with them. If anyone else had been tested by having to 
give a decision about them, such a man would have shown his deficiency in 
(knowing) the truth about them, just as (the Commander of the Faithful) had 
made it clear. 


In this brief outline of the legal decisions (of the Commander of the Faithful) 


which we have put forward here, there is sufficient for our purposes, if Allah 
wills. 


159

[[p 24]]
CHAPTER VI 


MEMORABLE WORDS AND SPEECHES 
OF THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


His Worps ABouT ALLAH 


(This is) a brief account of some of the words of (the Commander of the 
Faithful), peace be on him, concerning the necessity of knowing Allah, the 
Exalted, His unity and the denial of anthropomorphism (tashbih), together with 
a description of Allah’s justice, the different kinds of wisdom and the evidence 
and proof of these. 


[Abt Bakr al-Hudhalt reported on the authority of al-Zuhri, on the authority of 
‘Isa b. Zayd, on the authority of Salih b. Kaysan:] 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, said, in urging the knowledge 
of Allah, may He be praised, and (the acknowledgement) of His unity: 

“The first act of worshipping Allah is to know Him. The basis of knowledge 
of Him lies in (the acknowledgement of) His Unity. The support for (the 
acknowledgement of) His Unity is the denial of any comparison of Him, the 
High, (with man) in terms of stating that human qualities (sifat) subsist in Him. 
(This is) because of the testimony of reason that everyone in whom human 
qualities subsist is created (masnii‘). Whereas the testimony of reason 
(requires) that He, the High and Exalted, Who is the Creator (sdani‘), is not 
created. Through the creation of Allah which points towards Himself, through 
reason which establishes the belief in knowledge of Him, through reflection 
which confirms the proof of His (existence), Allah has caused His creation to 
be evidence of Himself. Through it, He has revealed His Majesty. He is One, 
Unique in His eternity, without partner in His Divinity, without equal in His 
Divinity. By virtue of the contradictory nature of things which contradict each 
other, there is knowledge that nothing is contrary to Him. By virtue of the nature 
of comparability in matters which can be compared, there is knowledge that 
nothing can be compared to Him.” 


(The Commander of the Faithful said this) in a speech which, if it was fully 


reported, would make this book too long. 
ok 2 2 2K 


Among the speeches recorded on his authority, peace be on him, about the 
denial of any comparison of Allah (with human qualities) is that which al-Sha‘bi 


160 


reported. He said that the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, heard 
a man saying: “By Him Who is veiled with seven layers (of heaven).” Then he 
raised his stick towards the sky. 


“Woe upon you,” he said, “Allah is too exalted to be veiled from anything and 
for anything to be veiled from Him. Praise be to Him, Whom no place contains, 
yet from Whom nothing on earth or in heaven is hidden.” 


“Shall I redeem my oath, Commander of the Faithful?” the man asked. 
“No,” he answered, “you did not swear by Allah. Therefore no atonement for 


perjury is required of you, for you were only swearing by something else.” 
OK 2 2 2 


The historians (al al-sira wa-‘ulama al-naqala) report that a man! came to 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and asked: “Commander 
of the Faithful, tell me about Allah, the Exalted. Did you see Him when you 
worshipped Him?” 

“T am not one who worships someone whom I have not seen” he answered. 


“Then how did you find Him when you saw Him?” he asked. 

“Woe upon you,” he said, “the eyes do not see Him in terms of human eye-sight. 
Rather the hearts see Him through the inner realities of faith (tman). (He can 
be) known through evidence and can be characterised by signs, which cannot be 
compared to people nor attained through sense perception.” 


The man went away saying: “Indeed, Allah knows well how He should deliver 
His message.” 


In this account there is evidence that (the Commander of the Faithful) denied the 
possibility of direct vision of Allah, the Mighty and High. 


28 2K OK 


[Al-Hasan b. Abt al-Hasan al-Basri reported:] 

A man came to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, after his 
departure from the battle of Siffin. He asked him: “Commander of the Faithful, 
tell me: Was the battle which took place between you and these people a result of 
the decree and determination of Allah?” 


“You have never gone up a hill nor gone down into a valley without Allah’s 


1 Nahj al-Balagha, (Beirut, 1967), I, tradition no. 258. The man is identified as Dhi‘bil al-Yamant. 
The final part of the speech is slightly different. 


161 


decree and determination being present in the action,” he answered. 


“Then, Commander of the Faithful, I regard (all) my concerns as Allah’s 
responsibility,” he said. 
“Why?” 


“Tf the decree and determination of Allah drive us to act,” he said, “then what 
is the point of rewarding us for obedience and punishing us for disobedience?” 
“Fellow,” said the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, “have you 
thought that it was a sealed decree and determination? Don’t think that. That 
sort of statement is the doctrine of idolaters, supporters of Satan and opponents 
of Allah, the Merciful. (It is such people) and the Majis with them who have 
adopted it. Allah, exalted be His Majesty, gives commands as a matter of free 
choice (takhyir), and gives prohibitions as a warning (against an action.) He 
puts the burden on us. He is not obeyed unwillingly nor is He disobeyed as one 
who can be overcome. He has not created the heavens and the earth and what is 
between them in vain. That is the opinion of those who disbelieve. There will be 
woe from Hell-fire for those who disbelieve. (XXXVIII 27).’? 


“What, then, is the decree and determination which you mentioned, Commander 
of the Faithful?” asked the man. 

He answered: “It is the command to obey, the prohibition of disobedience, the 
provision (to man) to draw near Him and to abandon those who disobey Him, 
the promise (of reward) and the threat (of punishment), the inspiration (He 
gives man) to do good and the fear of doing evil (which He arouses in man). 
All that is the decree of Allah with regard to our actions and His determination 
of our deeds. As for anything else (which has been claimed), do not give it any 
consideration. For the consideration of it will invalidate your action.” 


“You have dispelled my worries, Commander of the Faithful,” said the man. 
“May Allah dispel yours.” And he began to recite: 
You are the Imam, through obedience to whom we hope for forgiveness 
from Allah, the Merciful, on the Day of the Return (to Him). You have 
explained what was unclear in our religion. May your Lord bounteously 


reward you with kindness. 
OK 2 2 2K 3 


This account clarifies, through the words of the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, the meaning of (divine) justice and the prohibition of (belief 


2 This paragraph, though in a somewhat different order, is the same as Nahj al-Balagha, Ill, no. 
78, 481. 


162 


in) the doctrine of determinism (jabr), (in addition to) establishing the wisdom in 
the actions of Allah, the Exalted, and denying that there is any futility in them. 


His Worps ABOUT KNOWLEDGE (‘JZ™) 


(This is a selection of) some of the words of (the Commander of the 
Faithful), peace be on him, in praise of (traditional) knowledge (‘i/m), about the 
categories of people, the merit of (traditional) knowledge, and about acquiring 
it and wisdom. 


The traditionists (ah/ al-nagl) have reported on the authority of Kumayl b. 
Ziyad, may Allah have mercy on him, that he said:? One day the Commander 
of the Faithful took me by the hand in the mosque and led me out of it. When 
he had gone out into the desert, he breathed a deep sigh and said: “Kumayl, 
these hearts are containers (of knowledge); the best of them are those which best 
preserve (the knowledge). Therefore preserve what I say to you. There are three 
kinds of people: One who knows the Lord (for His own sake), one who acquires 
knowledge as a means of salvation and low class rabble, followers of every 
crower, who bend with every breeze. These men do not seek to be illuminated by 
the light of learning, nor do they resort to any sure authority (rukn). 


“Kumayl, knowledge is better than wealth. Knowledge guards you while you 
guard wealth. Wealth is diminished by expenditure while knowledge is increased 
even by giving it away. 


“Kumayl, the love of knowledge is a (kind of) religion which is professed (by a 
man) and through which he perfects his obedience (to Allah) during his life and 
acquires a noble reputation after his death. Knowledge is a judge and wealth is 
something which is judged. 


“Kumayl, those who amass wealth die even as they live while those who 
possess knowledge will continue to exist for as long as time lasts. Their 
individual entities will disappear but their images will remain in the hearts (of 
men). 


“Here, indeed is much knowledge,” and he pointed to his breast. “If I could 
come upon men who would carry it (amala)... Indeed I came upon such as took 
it too quickly and (thus) did not protect it. Such a man would use the tools of 
religion for (success in) the world. He would seek to use the proofs of Allah and 
His favours as a means of dominating His friends and His Book. Or (there was 


3 cf. Nahj al-Balagha, I, no. 147, 495 ff. 


163 


the sort of man) who submitted to the wisdom (of Allah’s knowledge) without 
having true vision of his own (need for) humility. At the first appearance of any 
problem, doubt would eat into his heart. Neither this man nor that one (was 
appropriate). (As each) eagerly sought pleasures and was easily dominated by 
passions or enamoured of amassing and hoarding wealth, they were not of the 
kind who would be shepherds of religion. They were both much more like cattle 
wandering without restraint in search of fodder. Thus in the (living) death of such 
carriers of knowledge would knowledge itself die. 


“O Allah, indeed the earth will never be without (a man who is) a proof (hujja 
i.e. an Imam) of You to Your Creation, whether (he acts) openly in the public 
eye or secretly out of fear. (In this way) the proofs of Allah and His signs will 
not be brought to nought. Where are those men? They are men who are least in 
number yet greatest in Allah’s esteem. Through them Allah preserves His proofs 
(to the world) until they hand them as a trust to their equals and sow them as 
seeds in the hearts of those like themselves. Through them knowledge has 
broken into the inner realities of faith and they have found the spirit of certainty 
to be something gentle and comforting. They have found easy what those who 
love the easy life have found to be hard and difficult. They are familiar with 
things which the ignorant distrust. They have travelled through this world with 
their bodies while their souls have been (always) associated with the Highest 
Abode. These are the representatives (khulafa’) of Allah on His earth and those 
who summon His worshippers to His (true) religion”. 


Then he breathed a deep sigh and said: “Oh, how I long to see them.” He took his 


hand from mine and said to me: “Go now, if you wish.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


Among the words of (the Commander of the Faithful), peace be on him, 
urging people to knowledge (ma ’rifa), explaining its merit, and the qualities of 
those who possess knowledge (‘u/ama’), and (describing) how those who seek 
knowledge should be, is (this report) of a speech which scholars have handed 
down in (their) accounts. However, we have omitted the beginning of it, (starting 
at) his words: 

“Praise be to Allah, Who has guided us from error, Who has given us vision 
(and kept us away) from blindness, Who has (bestowed) on us the religion 
of Islam. (It is He) Who has caused prophethood to have been among us and 
Who has made us good men. He has made our ultimate pinnacle the ultimate 
pinnacle of prophets. He has made us the best community which has come for 
men. We enjoin the good and forbid the evil. We worship Allah and we do not 
associate anything with Him, nor do we take any master (wa/7) apart from Him. 


164 


We are witnesses of Allah and the Apostle was our witness (of Him). We seek 
intercession and are given intercession along with those with whom we sought 
intercession from Him. We ask and our request is granted. He forgives the sins 
of those whom we pray for. Allah has elected us. We do not call on any master 
(wali) apart from Him. 


“People, help one another to (acts of) good faith and piety. But do not help 
one another to sin and aggression. Fear Allah. Indeed Allah is severe in (His) 
punishment. 


“People, I am the cousin of your Prophet and the closest of you to Allah 
and His Apostle. Therefore question me, question me. It is as if knowledge 
(‘ilm) has already wasted away among you. When any one who possesses 
knowledge perishes, then part of his knowledge perishes with him. Those among 
the people who possess knowledge (‘u/amd@’) are like the full-moon in the sky 
whose light illuminates the rest of the constellations. Take hold of whatever 
knowledge appears to you. Beware of seeking it for four reasons: that through it 
you may vie with (other) possessors of knowledge; or that by it you may quarrel 
with the ignorant; or that as a result of it you act hypocritically in discussions; 
or that through it you may disregard the leaders of the people in favour of 
yourselves becoming leaders. Those who do (good) acts and those who do not 
will not receive equal punishment from Allah. May Allah benefit both us and 
you by what He has taught us. May (a man who has knowledge) use it only for 
the sake of Allah. Indeed He is One Who hears, One Who answers.” 


28K OK 


Among his statements, peace be on him, about the description of the one who 
possesses knowledge (‘al/im) and the training of one who seeks to possess 
knowledge is what is reported by al-Harith al-A‘war. He said: I heard the 
Commander of the Faithful say: “It is the right of the one who possesses 
knowledge (‘alim) that he should not be questioned too much, nor be required 
to answer. Nor should he be troubled when he is tired, nor caught hold of by 
the sleeves when he rises (to leave). No (finger) should be pointed at him with 
regard to anything which is needed, nor should any secret of his be divulged. No 
one should speak slander in his presence. He should be given great respect in as 
much as he has preserved the command of Allah. The student should only sit in 
front of him and should not expose him to too much of his company. If a student 
(seeking) knowledge, or anyone else, comes to him while he is in a group, he 
should make a general greeting to them all and give particular good wishes to 
him. 


165 


“Let him be respected whether he is present or absent. Let his right be known. 
Indeed the man who possesses knowledge receives greater reward than the man 
who fasts, the man who undertakes (other religious duties), the man who strives 
along the path of Allah. When the one who possesses knowledge (‘alim) dies, 
a breach is made in Islam which can only be filled by his successor and the one 
who seeks after knowledge. The angels ask for forgiveness for him and those in 
heaven and on earth pray for him.” 


His WorDS CONCERNING HERESY. 


Among his speeches, peace be on him, concerning heretics (ah/ al-bida‘) and 
those who speak of religion in terms of their own opinion while opposing 
the way of true believers (ah/ al-haqq) through what they say, is (the speech) 
reported by sound traditionists of the non-Shi‘a (‘amma) and the Shi‘a (khassa). 
The speech opens with the praising of Allah and blessings on His Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, (and then goes on)*: “My responsibility 
for what I say is guaranteed and I am answerable for it. It will not wither the 
corn-seeds which men have sown, nor will roots be parched as a result of it. 


“All goodness is within a man who knows his own Ability. Not knowing one’s 
own ability is sufficient ignorance for man. A creature who is most hateful to 
Allah is a man whom Allah, the Exalted, has left to himself, (a man) who is 
deviating from the true path, (a man) enamoured of words of heresy. (In this 
heresy) he has become addicted to fasting and prayer. Yet he is seduction to 
those who are seduced by him, himself going astray from the guidance of those 
who came before him, and leading into error those who follow him. Thus he 
bears (responsibility) for the sins of others, being (himself) settled in his own 
sinfulness. (Such a man) has picked up the refuse of ignorance amid ignorant 
men without guidance. Unaware of the intense darkness of rebellion, he is blind 
to guidance. Yet men like himself call him knowledgeable (‘alim) while he is 
not constant in following it even for one complete day. He goes out early and 
seeks to make much of what is little (regarding it as) better than what is (truly) 
much, so that when he has quenched his thirst on polluted water and sought to 
increase (his knowledge) from what is vile, he sits as a judge responsible for the 
clarification of what is obscure to everyone else. He fears that those who came 
before him were without his wisdom and that the action of those who come after 
him will be like the action of those who came before him. If an obscure matter is 
brought before him, he gives an irrelevant comment on it according to his own 
opinion and then asserts (that) categorically. Thus he is enmeshed in doubts as if 
in the spider’s web, not knowing whether he is right or wrong. He does not see 
4 Part of this speech is the same as Nahj al-Balagha, 1, no. 17, 59ff. 


166 


that what is beyond (him) is within the reach (of others). If he made an analogy 
of one thing with another, he would never regard his opinion as being wrong. If 
a matter is obscure to him, he conceals it because he knows his own ignorance, 
deficiency, and the necessity (of hiding it) in order that it cannot be said that he 
does not know. Therefore he puts himself forward without knowledge. He is 
one who wanders aimlessly like riders without direction amid the uncertainties 
of unknown tracts of desert. Never does he excuse himself for what he does 
not know. Thus he gives a decision without ever having bitten into knowledge 
with a tooth that can bite. He scatters the traditions like the wind scatters sand. 
Inheritances (wrongly distributed) weep because of him, blood cries out for 
vengeance because of him. By his judgements he makes lawful the forbidden 
parts and forbids those that are allowed. He is invalid when he issues 
(judgements on cases) which come before him and he does not regret his 
inadequacy. 


“People, it is required of you to obey and to know the one whom there is no 
excuse to be ignorant of. The knowledge with which Adam, peace be on him, 
descended, and everything with which the prophets were favoured down to your 
Prophet, the seal of the prophets, is in the offspring of your Prophet, Muhammad, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family. Where has it brought you? Or rather where 
are you going, you who are descended from the loins of the men who were on 
the Ark? This (offspring of the Prophet) is like (the Ark of Noah). Therefore 
(adhere to them as) you would board it. Just as those who were in it were saved, 
so those who enter into (association with this family) will be saved through them. 
I guarantee that by a true oath and I am not one of those who make false claims. 
Woe on those who hold back, woe again on those who hold back. Haven’t you 
been made aware of what your Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
said among you, when he said in the Farewell Pilgrimage: ‘I leave behind me 
among you two important things which, if you cleave to them, you will never 
go astray - that is the Book of Allah and the offspring from my family (al al- 
bayt). They will never scatter from you until they lead you to me at the (sacred) 
waters (of Heaven)’. Now take care how you oppose me with regard to these two 
(things). Otherwise there will be dread punishment. Indeed this (agreement with 
the Book and the family) is a sweet pleasant drink, so drink. But that (opposition) 
is salty and brackish, so avoid it.’” 


His WorDs ABOUT THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT 
(Here is an extract from) his words, peace be on him, describing the world and 
warning against it.° 


5 Nahj al-Balagha, Il, no. 119, 489. 


167 


“The world is just like a snake - a soft thing to touch but vicious in sting. 
Therefore avoid those things which please you in it because of the short length 
(of time) which they will be with you there. Be as familiar as you can with what 
is there while being as wary as you can of its possessions. For whenever one who 
possesses (the world) seeks to take ease from it, it diverts him from it to what is 


hateful.” 
2 ok ok ok ok 


(These are some of ) his words, peace be on him, regarding getting ready to go 
to the next world, preparing to meet Allah, may His Name be exalted, and advice 
to the people about righteous deeds. The religious scholars report this in the 
traditions and the historians (ashab al-sira wa-al-athar) (also) report it: 


Every night when the people were taking to their beds for sleep, he would call 
out in a voice which could be heard by all the people in the mosque and nearby:° 
“May Allah have mercy on you, prepare yourselves, for the call has been made 
among you for you to set out on the journey (to Allah). Give scant (attention) to 
staying in this world and turn (to Allah) with the best provisions you have. For 
in front of you is a mountain-pass which will be difficult to climb and halting- 
places full of terror, from which the one who travels (the road) and stops along it 
has no escape. Through Allah’s mercy, may you be saved from its horrors. After 
destruction there will be no haughtiness. How sad it will be for the negligent man 
that his own life will be a proof against him and (the evils of) his days will lead 
him to the distress which Allah has made for (those of) us (who are like him). 
Beware of those who scorn grace and who will not be freed from vengeance after 
death. We only (exist) through Him and for Him and by virtue of His kind hand. 


He has power over everything.” 
OK 2 2k 2 


(These are some of) his words, peace be on him, concerning shaming the life of 
this world and seeking to carry out actions for the next world: 

“Son of Adam, let not the greatest of your concerns be what happens to you 
today. For if it passes you by, it was not meant for you. Your concern should 
be now and on every day which comes to you, that Allah will provide you with 
provision for it. You should know that you will never acquire anything beyond 
your own sustenance, save as one who looks after things on behalf of others. (If) 
your share (of wealth) in this world is abundant, then soon your heir will take 
it over and together with him your account on the Day of Resurrection will be 
lengthy. So be happy with what you have and make provision for the day of your 
return (to Allah) which is ahead of you. The journey is long, the appointment is 


6 Nahj al-Balagha, 1, no. 204, 321. 


168 


(on the day of) the Resurrection, the destiny is Heaven or the fire (of Hell).” 
OK 2 2 2 


Another speech of his, peace be on him, similar to that, is well known among the 
religious scholars and has been preserved by men of understanding and wisdom.’ 
“People, this world has turned its back and made known its departure. The next 
world has drawn near and given notice of its appearance. Indeed today is (like) 
the day horses are prepared (for a race) and tomorrow is (like) the day of the 
race. The destiny of the winner is Paradise while the fate (of the loser) will 
be Hell-fire. You are amid days of preparations for (men), behind whom the 
time of death is urging haste. Whoever dedicates his works to Allah, will not 
have his hopes destroyed. Whoever allows the works (of the world) to delay him 
during the days of his preparations prior to the coming of the time of his death, 
his (worldly actions) will come to naught and his hopes will destroy him. Indeed 
act (righteously) with regard to both (what you) desire and (what you) fear. If 
your desire comes to you, thank Allah and add it to (what you) fear. If (what 
you fear) befalls you, then be mindful of Allah and add it to (what you) desire. 
Allah has permitted those who do good (to enjoy) goodness. To those who thank 
Him, He gives increase (of blessings). There is no acquisition better than an 
acquisition for a day for which stores are stored, (a day) on which great sins are 
collected together and the intentions (of the heart) concerning them are tested. I 
have never seen one who aspires to Heaven asleep nor have I seen one who seeks 
to flee from Hell-fire asleep. One who does not benefit from certainty is harmed 
by doubt. The one who does not benefit from the presence of his heart and sight 
(will attain) his (sad) end without them. You have been commanded to set out (to 
the next world) and have been guided with provisions (for the journey). There 
are two things which I most fear for you -- the following of passion and the 
delay (of good actions) caused by hope. For following passion stops one from 
(attaining) the truth and the delay (of good actions) caused by hope makes one 
forget about (the need for such actions for) the next world. Indeed the world has 
set out on a journey away (from us) while the next world has set out on a journey 
towards (us). Both of them have children (who follow them). Therefore, if you 
can, be among the children of the next world and do not be among the children of 
this world. Today is (the day) for good actions without the account (to be settled). 
Tomorrow is (the day) for the account (to be settled) without (the opportunity for 
performing) good actions.” 


His Worps ABOUT COMPANIONS, ASCETICS AND HIS SHI‘A 
Among the speeches which he, peace be on him, gave, mentioning the choice 
7 cf. al-Jahiz, al-Bayan wa-al-Tabyin, II, 52-53. Elements from this speech are found in Nahj al- 


Balagha, I, no. 18, 71; no. 176, 110; and no. 41, 83. 


169 


companions and ascetics, is that which Sa‘sa‘a b. Suhan al-‘Abdi reported: He 
said that one day the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, prayed the 
morning prayer with them. When he had said the final greeting (of the prayer) he 
turned his head toward the gibla (i.e. in the direction of Mecca) as he mentioned 
Allah. He did not turn to right or left until the sun’s (shadow reached) the height 
of a spear on the wall of that mosque - meaning the Friday-mosque in Kifa. Then 
he, peace be on him, turned his head towards us and said: 

“T knew upright men in the time of my bosom companion, the Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, who used to spend this night alternating 
between prostration and kneeling. In the morning they would have dishevelled 
hair, be dusty, and between their eyes, there would be (a lump) like the knee of 
the goat (as a result of prostration). When they remembered death, they quivered 
like trees quiver in the wind. Then their eyes would shed tears until their clothes 
became wet.” 


Then he, peace be on him, arose and he was speaking as if the people had 


remained heedless (of his words). 
OK 2 2 2 


(These are some of) his words, peace be on him, concerning his sincere Shi‘a. 
The historians (nagalat al-athar) report that one evening he, peace be on him, left 
the mosque. It was a moon-lit night. He headed towards the cemetery (jabbana). 
A group of men followed him, standing behind him. He stopped and said: “Who 
are you?” 

“Commander of the Faithful, we are your Shi‘a,” they replied. 


He looked steadfastly at their faces and then said: ““Why don’t I see the mark of 
the Shi‘a on you?” 
“What is the mark of the Sh1‘a, Commander of the Faithful?” they asked. 


“Yellow faces through staying awake at night,” he replied, “bleary eyes through 
weeping, hunched backs through standing (in prayer), hollow stomachs through 
fasting, dry lips through prayer, and there is the dust of those who show humility 
on them.’’ 


His WorDS CONCERNING DEATH 


Among his words, peace be on him, warning and mentioning death is (the speech) 
which has become well-known. From it (is the following):° 


8 For the last sentence, cf. Nahj al-Balagha, I, no. 12, 178. 
9 cf. Nahj al-Balagha, I, no. 123, 180 


170 


“Death is a greedy pursuer. As for the pursued, neither will the one who stays be 
able to weaken it, nor will the one who flees be able to escape it. Therefore go 
forward into battle and do not shrink away since there is no escape from death. 
Even if you are not killed, you will die. By (Allah), in Whose hand is the life of 
‘Alt, a thousand sword blows on the head is easier than death in bed.” 


Concerning that are his words, peace be on him:!° 

“People, you have become targets so that the Fates are shooting arrows down on 
you. Your properties have been plundered by the blows (of Fortune). Whatever 
food you have eaten has stuck in your throat. Whatever drink you have drunk 
has choked you. I testify by Allah that you will not gain from this world any 
advantage which you can enjoy except by losing another which you were 
showing regard for. 


“People, we have been created. Therefore be (eager) for eternity and not for 
transitory existence. For you will travel from one abode to another. So make 
provision for where you are going and where you will dwell for ever. Peace (be 
with you).” 


SPEECHES URGING MEN TO HIMSELF AND HIS FAMILY 


(There are) among his speeches, peace be on him, those which urge men (to 
follow) him, give evidence of his own outstanding merit and of his being 
deprived of his right, and explain what oppression was committed against him, 
indicating it and drawing attention to it. (This is) what the Shi‘a (khdassa) and 
non-Shi‘a (‘Gmma) have reported. It is mentioned by Abi ‘Ubayda Ma‘mar 
b. al-Muthanna and others whom the opponents of the Shi‘a cannot accuse of 
(partiality) in their report.'' The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
said at the beginning of the address which he gave after the people’s pledge 
of allegiance to his leadership (had been given) - that was after the murder of 
‘Uthman - (the following): 

“The ruler should only pay attention to his own soul. (If he pays attention to 
others) he will be distracted from Heaven and Hell will be in front of him. One 
who earnestly strives will be saved. One who seeks has hope. One who is remiss 
will be in Hell-fire. These are three (kinds of person). There are two (more): an 
angel who flies with his wings and a prophet whom Allah has taken by his hand. 
There is no sixth (kind). The one who makes false claims will be destroyed. 
Those who rush heedlessly (into bad actions) will be made to fall. The right-hand 
side and the left-hand side lead (men) astray. The middle road is a path on which 


10 cf. Nahj al-Balagha, |, no. 145, 202 
11 al-Jahiz, al-Baydan wa-al-Tabyin, I, 50-2. 


171 


there still remains the Book, the swnna and the reports (athar) of prophethood. 
Indeed Allah, the Exalted, has treated the community with two medicines - the 
whip and the sword. There will be no hesitation by the Imam in applying them. 
Take cover in your houses and reconcile (the differences) which are between 
you. (There should be) repentance for what you have done. Whoever makes 
himself appear (falsely) to support truth will be destroyed. You were in some 
affairs, (in which you were inclined against me, it was an inclination for which) 
you had no excuse in my eyes. As for me, if I had wanted to say (it), I would 
have said: May Allah forgive what has gone before. The two men (Abt Bakr and 
‘Umar) came first (in depriving me of my rights). 


“Then the third stood like a crow, his concern for his stomach. Woe to him, if 
his wings have been clipped and his head cut off, it is better for him. Watch me. 
If you find something to denounce, denounce it. If you recognise it, then hasten 
(to carry it out). There is truth and falsehood. Each has its supporters. If the 
false becomes leader, then he will do as (was done) in the past. If truth becomes 
scarce, then perhaps for a short time it will recede but only to advance again. If 
your lives returned (to what they were before) you would be happy. I fear that 
you are now living in an intermediate period (without a prophet). I have only the 
ability to use reason (ijtihdd) (to guide you). However, the pious of my family 
and the good ones of my offspring are the most forbearing of the people when 
they are young and the most knowledgeable of the people when they are older. 
We are the family of the House (ah/ al-bayt), we know our knowledge from the 
knowledge of Allah. We judge according to the law of Allah, and we have taken 
(knowledge) from the words of the truthful one (1.e. the Prophet). If you follow 
our pronouncement, you will be guided by our clear vision. If you do not, Allah 
will destroy you at our hands. We have the standard of truth. Whoever follows 
it, will attain it. Whoever delays from it will be drowned. Indeed through 
us, the vengeance of every believer will be realised. Through us, the rope of 
humiliation will be removed from your necks. It is through us, not you, that Allah 


brings conquest. It is through us, not you, that He sets the seal (on life).” 
OK 2 2 2 


Another extract from his speech, peace be on him, urging (men) to himself and 
his family, peace be on him, are his words: 

“Allah singled out Muhammad for prophethood, and chose him for the mission. 
He gave him information through inspiration. He set (him) among the people 
- He set him (there). We, the family of the House (ah/ al-bayt), have the 
strongholds of knowledge, the gates of decision and the illumination of 
authority. Whoever loves us, his faith will benefit him and his works will bring 
him close (to Allah). Whoever does not love us, his faith will not benefit him and 


172 


his works will not bring him close to Allah, even though he should strive night 


and day in prayer and fasting.” 
28 2K OK 2K 


In addition to that is what is reported by ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Jundub on the 
authority of his father, Jundub b. ‘Abd Allah. The latter said: I visited ‘Alt b. 
Abt Talib, peace be on him, in Medina after the people had given the pledge of 
allegiance to ‘Uthman. I found him with head lowered and sorrowful. I asked 
him: “What has come upon your people?” 

“Beautiful endurance,” he answered. 


“Praise be to Allah!” I said. “By Allah, you are indeed enduring. Do what you 
said you would do among the people. Summon them to yourself and inform them 
that you are the closest and most appropriate of the people by virtue (of your 
relationship) with the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, by virtue 
of your outstanding merit (fad/) and your priority (in Islam). Ask them to help 
you against these men who have conspired against you. If ten out of a hundred 
answer you, you would be a powerful influence with the ten over the hundred. 
If they approached you, that would be as you would want. If they refused, you 
could fight them. If you are victorious, then the authority is Allah’s, Who gave it 
to his Prophet, blessing and peace be on him, and you are more appropriate for 
it than them. If you are killed in seeking it, then you would be killed as a martyr 
and you would be more deserving of Allah’s forgiveness and have more right to 
the inheritance of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family.” 


“Jundub,” he said, “do you think that ten out of a hundred would pledge 
allegiance to me?” 
“T would hope so,” I replied. 


“However,” he retorted, “I do not expect two men from every hundred. I 
will tell you why. The people look to Quraysh. Quraysh says that the family 
of Muhammad think that they have merit over the rest of the people and that 
they are the masters (awliya’) of the affair apart from (the rest of) Quraysh. 
(They say that) if they took charge of it, this authority would never leave them 
to go to anyone else. Since it is already with others, you should circulate it 
among yourselves. No, by Allah, Quraysh will never give this authority to us 
voluntarily.” 


“Won't you go back and tell the people what you have just said?” I asked 
him. “Then summon them to yourself.” 


173 


“Jundub,” he said, “this is not the time for that.” 


After that, I returned to Iraq. Whenever I used to mention any of his virtues, 
accomplishments and rights to the people, they would treat me roughly and drive 
me away until the matter of my words was brought before al-Walid b. ‘Uqba who 
was our governor at that time. He sent for me and imprisoned me until someone 
spoke to him about me and then he freed me. 


SPEECHES ABOUT THOSE WHO REFRAINED FROM PLEDGING ALLEGIANCE TO 
HIM AND THOSE WHO BROKE THEIR PLEDGE. 


Among the speeches which he, peace be on him, made when ‘Abd Allah b. 
‘Umar b. al-Khattab, Sa‘d b. Abt Waqqas, Muhammad b. Maslama, Hassan b. 
Thabit and Usama b. Zayd withheld the pledge of allegiance from him is what 
al-Sha‘bi reported: 

When Sa‘d and the others whom we have named withdrew from the Commander 
of the Faithful, peace be on him, and withheld their pledge of allegiance, he 
praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: 

“People, you have pledged allegiance to me in the same way as the pledge was 
made to those before me. Choice (Ahiyar) only belongs to people before they 
make their pledge of allegiance. When the pledge of allegiance is made, then 
they no longer have any choice. It is duty of the Imam to follow the right course 
and it is the duty of subjects to submit. However, this is a general pledge of 
allegiance. Whoever turns away from it turns away from the religion of Islam 
and does not follow the path of its people. Your pledge of allegiance to me was 
not a random matter (falta). My affair and your affair are not one. I want Allah 
to be (the ultimate end) for you and you want me in the interests of yourselves. 
I swear by Allah that I will give sincere advice to a rival and I will give justice 
to the oppressed. I have learnt matters about Sa‘d, Ibn Maslama, Usama, ‘Abd 
Allah and Hassan b. Thabit which I dislike. Truth (will be decided) between 


them and me.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


(These are some of) his words, peace be upon him, when Talha and al-Zubayr 
reneged on their pledge of allegiance and set out for Mecca to meet ‘A’isha 
to incite (people) against him and to make an alliance opposed to him. The 
religious scholars have preserved on his authority, peace be on him, that after he 
had praised and glorified Allah, he said:'° 

“Allah sent Muhammad, may Allah bless Him and His Family, to all the people. 


12 Most of this speech is included in Nahj al-Balagha, |, no. 136, 194. 
13 Elements of this speech are in Nahj al-Balagha, I, no. 231, 353 and no. 54, 90. 


174 


He made him a mercy for the worlds. He made manifest what he had been 
ordered to and spread the message of his Lord. The manifestation was carried 
out through him and that which was split was united in him. Roads were made 
safe through him and (the shedding of) blood was brought to an end by him. 
By him reconciliation was brought about between men with feuds and hostility, 
with hatred in their breasts and malice rooted in their hearts. Then Allah took 
him to Himself, as a man to be praised who had not fallen short in the object for 
which he performed his mission. He had not achieved anything which fell short 
of his intention. After him there occurred the strife which there was over the 
leadership. Abt Bakr took control. Then after him (came) ‘Umar. Then ‘Uthman 
took control. When there happened with regard to his affair what you already 
know, you came to me and said: ‘We will pledge allegiance to you.’ I said: ‘I will 
not do it.’ You said: ‘Yes.’ I said: ‘No.’ Then you seized my hand and stretched 
(yours) out towards it. I tried to withdraw it from you but you tugged at it and 
you pressed upon me like thirsty camels at the watering pools on a day when 
they are brought to them, so that I thought that you would kill me and that you 
would kill each other on my account. Therefore I stretched out my hand and 
you pledged allegiance to me of your own accord. The first of you to pledge 
allegiance to me were Talha and al-Zubayr; they were acting voluntarily without 
any compulsion. It was not much later that they asked me to allow them to make 
the ‘umra (lesser pilgrimage). Allah knows that they already intended treachery. 
I made them renew their covenant of obedience to me and (promise) that they 
would not harm the community with evil deeds. They gave their covenants to 
me. However, they did not fulfill their promises to me, they reneged on their 
pledge of allegiance to me and they broke their covenant to me. How surprising 
it is that they submitted to Abi Bakr and ‘Umar yet showed hostility to me. But 
I am not inferior to either of those two men. If I wanted to, I would say: O Allah, 
judge them both for what they have done against my rights and how they have 


attempted to diminish my authority. Give me victory over them.” 
OK 2 2 2 


Elsewhere, he, peace be on him, spoke in a similar manner, (when) he said, after 
praising and glorifying Allah: 

“When Allah, the Exalted, took His Prophet, blessings and peace be on him, 
we said: We are the family of his House, his group, his inheritors and his close 
friends and next of kin (awliya), the creatures with most right with regard to 
him. There is no dispute about his right and authority. While we were in this 
position, the hypocrites rushed forward and took the authority of our Prophet 
by force away from us, and gave it to someone else. By Allah, at that, our eyes 
all wept and our hearts (grieved). Because of it our breasts became worn (with 
sorrow) and our souls were afflicted with grief. I was humiliated. But I swear by 


175 


Allah that if it had not been for my fear of division among the Muslims and that 
most of them would return to unbelief and that religion would have been placed 
in jeopardy, we would have changed that as far as we could. But now you have 
pledged allegiance to me and those two men, Talha and al-Zubayr, have pledged 
allegiance to me. Both you and they (have acted) spontaneously and according 
to (your own) choice. Yet both of them have arisen, heading for Basra to cause 
division in your unity (jamd ‘a) and to thrust misfortune into your midst. O Allah, 
seize them for the way they have deceived this community and for their evil 
attitude towards the general populace.” 


Then he said (to the people): “May Allah have mercy on you, hurry to seek out 
these two treacherous sinful perjurers before the opportunity of (preventing) the 


realisation of their criminal activities escapes.” 
ok 2 2 2 


When he was informed of the journey of ‘A’isha, Talha and al-Zubayr from 
Mecca to Basra, he praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: 

“Aisha, Talha and al-Zubayr have set out. Each one of the two (men) makes 
claims for the caliphate separately from his colleague. Talha only claims the 
caliphate because he is the paternal cousin of ‘A’isha and al-Zubayr only 
claims it because he is the brother-in-law of her father. By Allah, if the two are 
successful in what they intend, then al-Zubayr will execute Talha or Talha 
will execute al-Zubayr, this one disputing the (right to) kingship of the other. 
By Allah, I know that she is one who rides a camel. She will not stop at any 
pasturage; she will not go along any mountain path, and she will not be able to 
stop anywhere except in rebellion against Allah until her soul and (that of) those 
with her comes to its final end. A third (of those with her) will be killed, a third 
will flee, and a third will come back. Talha and al-Zubayr know that they are 
wrong. They are not ignorant. How often does the ignorance of one who knows 
kill him and the knowledge that he has does not benefit him? By Allah, the dogs 
of al-Haw’ab" bark at her but does one who reflects interpret and one who 


ponders ponder? The sinful party has established itself. Where are the good?” 
ok 2 2 2K 


When the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, headed for Basra, he 
stopped at al-Rabadha. The last (of the returning) pilgrims met him there. They 
gathered together to listen to some words from him, while he was still in his tent. 


Ibn ‘Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, reported: 


14 There is a tradition that the Prophet warned ‘A’isha that when she heard these dogs barking 
she would know that she was doing wrong. 
15 cf. Nahj al-Balagha, I, no. 33, 76. 


176 


I went to him and found him stitching a sandal. I said to him: “We have a great 
need (to know) what you will do in order to put right our affairs.” 


He did not speak to me until he had finished his sandal. He put it next to the other 
one and then he asked me: “(How much do you) value them?” 
“They have no value,” I answered. 


“More than that,” he retorted. 
“A fraction of a dirham,” I suggested. 


He said: “By Allah, they are more lovable to me than these affairs of yours but 
for the fact that I must establish (what is) true and ward off (what is) false.” 


“The pilgrims have gathered together to listen to some of your words,” I said. 
“Would you permit me to address them? If (my words) are good, they will be 
yours. If they are not, then they will be mine.” 


“No, I will speak,” he answered, and he put his hands on my breast. The palms 
were rough and hard and it hurt me. 

He got up. I seized hold of his clothes and said: “I commend Allah and kinship 
to you.” 

“You should not (bother to) commend them to me,” he replied and went out. 


They gathered around him. He praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: 

“Allah sent Muhammad, may Allah bless Him and His Family, while there 
was no one among the Arabs who recited an (Arabic) scripture nor claimed 
prophethood. He drove the people towards their salvation. By Allah, I am still 
driving them towards it. I have not changed, I have altered nothing, I have 
betrayed nothing until the whole of it has passed away. What is between me and 
the Quraysh? By Allah, I fought against them when they were unbelievers and I 
will fight against them when they bring sedition. This journey of mine (is made) 
on account of a covenant (made by the Prophet) to me. By Allah, I will split 
open the false so that the truth may come out of its sides. Quraysh will not take 
vengeance on me, for Allah has chosen us to be over them, and we will bring 
them under our control.” 


Then he recited: 
By my life, you continued your drinking of pure milk and your eating of 
dry dates with yoghourt. 
Yet we bestowed on you the highest rank even though you are not enough 


(for it). Around you, we give protection in the shield and spear. 
28K OK 


177 


When he stopped at Dht Qar, he took the pledge of allegiance from those who 
were present. After that he addressed them. He was profuse in his praise and 
glorification of Allah and in calling for blessings on the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family. Then he said: 

“Affairs which we have (resolutely) endured have taken place earlier; (it was 
as if) there was a mote in our eyes in surrendering to the authority of Allah, 
the Exalted, in matters by which he tested us. There is reward for that, for 
endurance of them was better than causing division among the Muslims and 
shedding their blood. We are the family of the House of Prophethood and the 
offspring of the Apostle, the creatures with the most right to the authority of the 
(prophetic) mission. (We are) the source of favour by which Allah initiated this 
community. This Talha and al-Zubayr are not from the family of prophethood 
nor from the offspring of the Apostle. When they saw that Allah had restored our 
right to us after some time, they could not wait for one year, nor even one full 
month before they launched an attack, following in the footsteps of those before 
them, so that they might take away my rights and separate the unity (jamd ‘a) of 
the Muslims from me.” 


Then he made a prayer against them. 
28 OK OK 


[‘Abd al-Hamid b. ‘Imran al-‘]jli reported on the authority of Salama b. Kuhayl, 
who said: ] 

When the people of Kufa met the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
at Dh Qar, they welcomed him and said: “Praise be to Allah, who has singled us 
out for (the honour of) granting you neighbourly protection and has honoured us 
by (enabling us to) support you.” 


Then the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, stood up among them to 
address them. He praised and glorified Allah and said: 

“People of Kufa, you are the noblest of the Muslims, the most purposeful of 
them in following the correct course, the most upright of them in practice, the 
best of them in (your) participation in Islam, and the best among the Arabs in 
composition and origin. You are the fiercest of the Arabs in your love for the 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and the members of his House. I 
only came to you out of my trust in you after Allah because of the fact that you 
will give your lives against Talha and al-Zubayr’s renunciation (of their fealty 
to me), opposition to giving obedience to me, setting out with ‘A’isha to create 
discord and taking her from her house until they had brought her to Basra. 
The common and confused people there were seduced. However I have been 
informed that men of merit and the choice men in religion among them had kept 


178 


aloof and have shown their dislike for what Talha and al-Zubayr have done.” 


He, peace be on him, fell silent and the Kifans declared: “We are your supporters 
and helpers against your enemy. If you summon us to weaken their (hold) over 
the people, we would consider that good and we would hope (to do) it.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, called to them and praised 
them. Then he said: 

“You know, Muslims, that Talha and al-Zubayr gave their pledge of allegiance 
to me, willingly, without compulsion and of their own accord. Then they asked 
permission from me to go on the lesser pilgrimage (‘umra). I gave permission 
to them. However, they went to Basra and killed Muslims and committed 
forbidden actions. O Allah, they have cut themselves off from me, they have 
oppressed me and have broken their pledge of allegiance to me, they have 
gathered the people against me. Therefore, loose what they have bound, do not 
give (favourable) judgement on anything which they have done well and show 


them the evil (which will result) from their actions.” 
28 2K OK 


Among his speeches, peace be on him, is (the speech he made) when he left 
Dhi Qar setting out for Basra. After praising and glorifying Allah and calling 
for blessings on the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, (he 
said:)!° 

“Allah, the Exalted, has imposed the duty of struggling (on his behalf) (Jihad). 
He magnified it and He has made it a means of helping Him. By Allah, neither 
the world nor religion will be properly maintained without it. 


“Satan has gathered his party and has assembled his cavalry. He has brought 
doubt and deception into that when matters had been clear and restored. 


“By Allah, they have not blamed me correctly, nor have they done justice 
between me and themselves. They are demanding (restitution of) a right which 
they themselves abandoned, and (vengeance for) blood which they themselves 
shed. Even if I had been in partnership with them in it, they would have had a 
share in it. But if they have perpetrated it without me, the consequences of it are 
only theirs. Their greatest argument against me is against themselves. I have my 
clear vision which has not confused me. 


“Indeed it is a wicked group in which there is kin and a scorpion’s sting whose 
vehemence lasts for a long time and the fever from it is possible. They are 


16 Elements of this speech are in Nahj al-Balagha, I, no. 10, 53, and no. 22, 63. 


179 


being suckled by a mother who is already dry. They revive a pledge of allegiance 
(i.e. to ‘Uthman) which had already been forsaken by them in order that straying 
from truth might be restored to the place it (formerly) had. I am not to blame for 
what was done. I am innocent of (the crime) which was perpetrated. 


“How disappointing is such a man to call on you! Who does he call? If he was 
asked: To whom is your call addressed and to whom do you answer? Who is your 
Imam and what is the practice (you call for), since falsehood has been removed 
from its place, his tongue would be silenced about what it had said. 


“By Allah, I shall make a tank overflow for them, from which I alone will draw. 
They will not be able to go away from it nor will they every be able to drink 
from it. 


“T am content with Allah’s proof against them and His blaming them, since I 
call to them and ask them to apologise. If they repent and accept (my call), then 
forgiveness will be given and the right course will have been accepted. There 
should be no ingratitude to Allah. If they refuse, I will let them have the edge of 
the sword. There is sufficiency in it as a healer of a false man and a helper of a 
believer.” 


His WorRDS BEFORE AND AFTER THE BATTLE OF THE CAMEL 


(This is) from his speech, peace be on him, when he entered Basra and gathered 
his followers, to urge them to the struggle. Among the things he said, was: 
“Servants of Allah, arise against these people, exposing your breasts to battle 
against them. They have reneged on their pledge of allegiance to me. They have 
expelled Ibn Hunayf, my governor, after grievous blows and violent punishment. 
They have killed al-Sababija and retaliated against Hakim b. Jabala al-‘Abdz. 


“They have killed righteous men and pursued those who escaped to capture them 
behind every wall and under every hillock. They brought them and executed 
them in chains. What is their purpose? May Allah fight them. Indeed they are 
liars. 


“Arise against them and be fierce against them. Hurl yourself against them 
with endurance and with fore-thought, for you know that you are attacking and 
fighting them after you have disposed yourselves (to give) the most piercing 
thrust and the most severe blow and a contest of equals. Any individual among 
you who feels strong hearted at the (coming) engagement and sees any of his 
brothers failing should defend his brother who is a benefit to him just as he would 


180 


defend himself. If Allah wishes, he would do the same for him. 
2k ok 2 2k ok 


(This is an extract) from his speech, peace be on him, when Talha had been killed 
and the Basrans scattered.'’ 

“Through us you were raised to nobility. Through us you broke into a new dawn 
of light out of darkness like the darkness of a moonless night. Through us you 
were guided amid darkness. Ears which do not comprehend the severe warning 
(given them) have become deaf. How does one who is deaf to the loud cries (of 
Allah) hear a weaker call (of myself)? The heart which palpitation (out of fear 
of Allah) never leaves is strengthened. I have always expected the consequences 
of treachery from you and IJ have perceived in you the quality of the deceitful. 
The garments of religion have concealed me from you but the true nature of my 
purpose revealed you to me. I established the right way for you where you might 
recognize it. Yet without a guide, you were digging (aimlessly for the water of 
truth) and did not find such water. 


“Today I am making things unknown to you speak out to you with clarity. The 
understanding of a man who has kept apart from me, has deserted him. I have 
never doubted in the truth from the time it was shown to me. The sons of Jacob 
were provided with the greatest evidence (for the truth) until they disobeyed their 
father and sold their brother (into slavery). Their repentance came after their 
confession of guilt, and through seeking the forgiveness of their father and their 


brother they were forgiven.” 
ok 2 2 2K 3 


Some of his words, peace be on him, spoken on his walking around the corpses 
(after the Battle of the Camel): 

“Here are (members of) Quraysh who have cut off my kinship with them 
(literally, my nose). Yet my life has been restored. I had come forward to you 
warning you against seizing hold of the sword but you were like young men: You 
did not have any (real) knowledge of what you were seeing. However, it was 
destruction and an evil end. I seek refuge with Allah from an evil end.” 


He passed Mu ‘td b. al-Miqdad and said: “May Allah have mercy on the father of 
this man. If he had been Alive, his judgement would have been better than this 


299 


man Ss. 


“Praise be to Allah Who brought him down and made his side the inferior one,” 
said ‘Ammar b. YAsir. “Indeed, by Allah, Commander of the Faithful, we do not 


17 Nahj al-Balagha, I, no. 4, 51. 


181 


esteem those who obstinately resist the truth, whether father or son.” 


“May Allah have mercy on you and reward you well for your (adhering to the) 
truth,” replied the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 


He passed ‘Abd Allah b. Rabi‘a b. Darraj who was among the slain. He said: 
“This hopeless man, what brought him out (in revolution)? Was it religion or 
support for ‘Uthman which brought him out (in revolution)? By Allah, ‘Uthman 
had an unfavourable opinion of him and his father.” 


Then he passed Mu‘id b. Zuhayr b. Umayya and said: “If the sedition had been 
at the top of the Pleiades, this young man would have grasped at it. By Allah, 
he was not there with a (brave) shout. The one who met him told me that he 
screamed with fear of the sword.” 


Then he passed Muslim b. Quraza and said: “Piety brought this man out (in 
revolution). Yet by Allah he asked me to ask ‘Uthman about something which he 
used to claim (as his) before in Mecca. ‘Uthman gave it to him and said to me: 
‘If it had not been for you, I would not have given it to him.’ Indeed this is what 
I knew. How sad for the brother of the clan. Then came the time for destruction 
as a result of helping ‘Uthman.” 


He went by ‘Abd Allah b. Hamid b. Zuhayr and he said: “This is also one of 
those who went into battle against us with the claim that he was seeking Allah 
by that. Yet he had written letters to me in which he made accusations against 
‘Uthman. Then he gave him something and he was satisfied with that.” 


He went beside ‘Abd Allah b. Hakim b. Hizam and said: “This man opposed 
his father in coming out in revolution even when his father would not help us. 
For the latter remained loyal in his pledge of allegiance to us even though he 
had held back (from helping us) and remained at home when he had doubts 
about the battle. The man who held back from us and the others today is not as 
blameworthy as he who fought against us is blameworthy.” 


Then he passed ‘Abd Allah b. al-Mughira b. al-Akhnas and he said: “This man’s 
father was killed on the day ‘Uthman was killed in his house. He came out in 
revolt enraged at the killing of his father. He is a young man and he became 
afraid because of his being killed.” 


Then he came to ‘Abd Allah b. Abi ‘Uthman b. al-Akhnas b. Shariq and said: 
“As for this man, it is just as if I was looking at him. The people had seized their 


182 


swords as he fled running from the ranks. I turned away from him but he did not 
listen to the man who called to him until he killed him. This is one of the things 
which were hidden to the young inexperienced men of Quraysh. They had no 
knowledge of war. They were deceived and led into error. When they stopped, 
they were struck down and killed.” 


He walked on a little way and came to Ka‘b b. Sur. He said: “This is a man who 
came out against us with the Qur’an (mashaf) around his neck, claiming that 
he was a supporter of the community and urging the people to what was in (the 
Qur’an) without himself knowing what was in it. Then he opened the Qur’an 
for a decision at: Every obstinate tyrant is disappointed (XIV 15) (which he 
understood) as meaning Allah had called (him) to kill me. However, Allah 
killed him. Make Ka‘b b. Sur sit.” So he was put in a sitting position. Then the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, said: “Ka‘b, you have now 
discovered what my Lord truly promised me. Have you found what your Lord 
truly promised you?” Then he said, “Lay Ka‘b to rest.” 


He came upon Talha b. ‘Ubayd Allah and he said: “This is the man who broke 
the pledge of allegiance to me, the man who produced discord in the community, 
the man who gathered the people against me, the man who urged them to kill 
me and kill my offspring. Make Talha b. ‘Ubayd Allah sit.” So he was put in a 
sitting position. Then the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, said to 
him: “Talha, you have discovered what my Lord truly promised me. Have you 
discovered what my Lord truly promised you?” Then he said, “Lay Talha to 
rest.” 


He went on and one of those who was with him said to him: “Commander of the 
Faithful, were you speaking to Ka‘b and Talha after they had been killed?” 


“By Allah,” he replied, “they heard my words just as the people of Qulayb heard 
the words of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, on the 


day of the Battle of Badr.” 
28K OK 


(This is some of) his speech at Basra after the defeat of the enemy. After praising 
and glorifying Allah, he said: 

“Allah is One Who possesses extensive mercy, eternal forgiveness and 
Abundant pardon, (as He possesses) dread punishment. He dispenses His mercy 
and forgiveness to those of His creatures who obey Him and by His mercy those 
who are rightly guided are guided. He dispenses His vengeance, His severity and 
His punishment on those of His creatures who are disobedient. After guidance 


183 


and clear explanations, those who have gone astray should not go astray. What is 
your view, people of Basra? You have reneged on your pledge of allegiance; you 
have publicly declared yourselves enemies against me.” 


A man stood up before him and said: “We think better now, for we see you have 
conquered and are powerful. If you punish us, that (would be because) we have 
committed a crime. If you forgive us, then forgiveness is more lovable to Allah, 
the Exalted.” 


He said: “I forgive you but beware of sedition. You are the first subjects to have 
broken the pledge of allegiance and spread sedition in this community.” 


Then he sat down before the people and they pledged allegiance to him. 
OK 2 2 2K 


He, peace be on him, wrote about the victory to the Ktfans: 
In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate, 
From the servant of Allah ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, Commander of the Faithful. 
To the people of Kifa. 
Greetings, I commend to you the praise of Allah, other than Whom there 
is no God. Allah is a just arbitrator who does not change what is in people 
until they change what is in themselves. If Allah wants evil for a people, 
there is no escape from it and they do not have a friend other than Him. I 
will tell you about ourselves and about those whom we went against - (that 
is) groups of the Basrans and the men of Quraysh and others who mixed 
with them in support of Talha and al-Zubayr - and about their breaking of 
the agreement made with their oaths. I left Medina when news came to me 
about the men who had set off for (Basra), and about their gathering there 
and what they had done to my governor ‘Uthman b. Hunayf. (I went on) 
until I came to Dhag@n. There I sent al-Hasan b. ‘Ali, ‘Ammar b. Yasir and 
Qays b. Sa‘d (to you) and I summoned you to (support) the right of Allah 
and His Apostle, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and my right. Your 
brothers soon set out to come to me. I went with them until we reached 
the outskirts (zahr) of Basra. I sought to excuse them through summoning 
them, and I presented them with proof. I (endeavoured to) diminish 
the stumbling and slipping caused by the apostates among Quraysh 
and others. I summoned them to repent from breaking their pledge of 
allegiance to me and the covenant which they had made to Allah. They 
refused (everything) except to fight against me and to fight against those 
with me, and to persist in their quarrelsome error. I rose against them in 
battle. Allah killed those of them who were killed as perjurers and He 


184 


drove back those who withdrew to their town. Talha and al-Zubayr were 
killed as a result of their perjury and rebellion. The woman (i.e. ‘A’isha) 
was worse for them than the she-camel of Thamid. They deserted 
and turned their backs (in flight). They were cut off from all means of 
protection. When they saw what had happened to them, they asked me 
to forgive them. I accepted that from them and sheathed the sword from 
them. I carried out (the requirements of) truth and the swnna among them 
and appointed ‘Abd Allah b. al-‘ Abbas as governor of Basra. Now I am 
coming to Kufa, Allah, the Exalted, willing. I have sent Zahar b. Qays al- 
Ju‘fi to you so that you can ask him and he will tell you about us and them. 
Truth has brought them back to us and Allah has been restored to them 


while they were reluctant. Greetings and the mercy and blessings of Allah. 
28 2K OK 2 


Among the words he, peace be upon him, spoke when he came to Kifa from 
Basra (are the following): 

“Praise be to Allah Who has aided His friend (wali), deserted His enemy, Who 
has given power to the truthful who was entitled and has brought low the false 
liar. People of the city, it is your duty to show respect to Allah and obedience 
to those of the family of Your Prophet to whom Allah has enjoined obedience. 
They are more appropriate (aw/da) to be obeyed than those who make false claims 
saying, (Come) to us. (Come) to us.” Such men were pretending to have our 
merit and were striving against our authority and sought to divest us of our right 
and keep it away (from us). They have tasted evil misfortune for what they dared 
(to do) and they will discover the error. (There are) among you men who have 
desisted from supporting us. I blame them. Desert them and make them hear 
(words) which they will dislike until they admit their bad behaviour towards us. 
Then we will see in such men things which we will like.” 


His WorDS ABOUT THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST MU‘SAWIYA AND THE BATTLE OF 
SIFFIN 


Among the speeches which he, peace be on him, made when he undertook to set 
out for Syria to fight Mu‘awiya b. Abi Sufyan (is the following): 


After praising and glorifying Allah and calling for blessings on the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, (he said): 

“Servants of Allah, fear Allah and obey Him and your Imam. Righteous subjects 
are saved by the just Imam. But sinful subjects are destroyed by the sinful Imam. 
Mu‘awiya has begun to usurp the right which belongs to me, and to break the 
pledge of allegiance to me, seeking to harm the religion of Allah, the Mighty 


185 


and High. Muslims, you know what the people did before when you came to me 
seeking for me to be in authority over you, so that you took me out of my house 
to pledge allegiance to me. I was reluctant with you in order to test your integrity. 
Then you repeated your words many times and I repeated (my reluctance) with 
you. You crowded upon me like thirsty camels at their pools of water in your 
anxiety to pledge allegiance to me so that I was afraid that some of you would 
kill others. When I beheld this from you, I considered my position and your 
position. I said: If I do not agree to their request, to undertake authority over 
them, they will not find anyone among them to take my place and act with my 
(degree of) justice among them. So I said: By Allah, that I should rule them 
while they acknowledge my right and my merit is preferable to me than that 
they should rule me without acknowledging my right and my merit. Therefore I 
stretched out my hand to you and you pledged allegiance to me. 


“O Muslims, among you are Emigrants and Ansar and those who follow good 
practice. I have received from you the covenant of your pledge of allegiance and 
I respond with my agreement through a covenant and agreement (mithaq) made 
before Allah. It was stronger than covenants and agreements made to prophets; 
(you pledged) that you would support me, listen to my command, obey me, and 
consult me, that you would fight with me against every tyrant, aggressor or one 
who deviated, if he deviated. You all gave me that (pledge). I demanded from 
you all the covenant and promise made before Allah and (under) the protection 
of Allah and His Apostle and you responded to me by (giving me) that. I 
made Allah the witness to your (words) and I made some of you witnesses to 
others. Then I applied the Book of Allah and the swnna of His Prophet, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, among you. Then surprisingly Mu‘awiya b. Abt 
Sufyan disputes the succession (khilafa) with me and denies me the (right to) the 
Imamate. He claims that he has more right to it than me, an act of boldness 
against Allah and His Apostle concerning something which he has no right to 
and no argument for. None of the Emigrants have pledged allegiance to him for 
it, nor have the Ansar and Muslims submitted to him. 


“O men of the Emigrants and Ansar, people who hear my words, have you made 
obedience to me something required of yourselves, whether you have pledged 
allegiance to me as subjects, or I have received a promise from you to accept 
my words. On that day your pledge to me was more certain than the pledge 
to Abu Bakr and ‘Umar. Therefore why did those who have opposed me not 
revoke (their pledge) to those two until they had departed, while they have 
revoked (their pledge to me) and have not carried out the instructions which I 
was entitled to expect them (to obey) and they have not kept to my commands? 
Do you now know that the pledge of allegiance to me is required of those of you 


186 


who are present and those of you who are absent? Who do Mu‘awiya and his 
followers find fault with in the pledge of allegiance to me and why do they not 
fulfil it since my close relationship (to the Prophet), my priority (as a Muslim), 
and my being son-in-law (of the Prophet) makes me more entitled to authority 
than those who came before me. Have you not heard the words of the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, at Ghadir concerning my authority 
(wilaya) and my being the one entitled to rule (mawla)? 


“Muslims, fear Allah and rise to battle against Mu‘awiya, the one who has broken 
his pledge and the unjust man, and (rise) against his unjust followers. Listen to 
what I recite to you from the Book of Allah which was sent down to His Prophet, 
the man He sent (to you), so that you may understand. By Allah it is a warning 
to you, so take advantage of Allah’s warning and hold back from disobedience 
to Allah. Allah warned you through (His warning to others) when He said to 
His Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family: Have you not considered the 
leaders of the Banu Isra’il after Moses when they said to one of their prophets: 
Send us a king so that we may fight on the path of Allah. He replied: Perhaps if 
fighting was ordained for you, you would not fight. They answered We have no 
other (idea) than to fight on the path of Allah and we have been brought out of 
our houses and our villages. When fighting was ordained for them, they turned 
their backs except a few of them. Allah is aware of wrong-doers. Their prophet 
said to them: Allah has sent Talut to you as a king. They asked: Shall he have 
(the right of) kingship over us when we are more entitled to kingship than he is? 
He has not brought any extent of wealth. He said: Allah has chosen him to be 
over you and has increased him extensively in knowledge and substance. Allah 
gives His kingship to whomsoever He wishes. Allah is all-embracing, knowing 
(II 246-7). 


“People, in these verses is an example so that you may learn that Allah has given 
the succession (khilafa) and the command after prophets to their progeny. He 
favoured Talut and brought him forward over the people (jamda ‘a) by His choice 
of him and by increasing him in Abundance of knowledge and substance. Do you 
think that Allah has chosen the Bani Umayya over the Bani Hashim and has 
increased Mu‘awiya extensively in knowledge and substance? Therefore, 
servants of Allah, fear Allah and strive on His path before His anger takes hold 
of you for your disobedience. Allah said: May those of the Banu Isra’tl who 
disbelieved be cursed by the tongue of David and Jesus, son of Mary, because 
they because they disobeyed and used to exceed the limit. They used not to forbid 
each other the hateful things (which) they did; certainly evil was that which they 
did! (V 77-79) Only the believers who believe in Allah and His Apostle and then 
have not doubted and have striven with their wealth and their lives on the path of 


187 


Allah, only they are the truthful ones (XLIX 15). O you who believe, shall I show 
you a trade which will grant you escape from dread punishment. You should 
believe in Allah and His Apostle and you should strive with your property and 
your lives on the path of Allah. That is better for you if you would (only) realise 
it. That will bring forgiveness of your sins and cause you to enter gardens 
beneath which flow rivers and in the gardens of Eden are beautiful houses. That 
is the great triumph. (LXI 10-12). 


“Servants of Allah, fear Allah and rise to fight on behalf of your Imam. If I had a 
group of you only the number of the men (who fought) at Badr, when I ordered 
them, they would obey me. When I urged them to rise, they would rise with me 
so that with them I could dispense with many of you and hurry to rise in battle 


against Mu‘awiya and his followers. For it is a required battle.” 
OK 2 2 2K 


Among his speeches, peace be on him, (which he delivered) when he heard 
about Mu‘awiya and the Syrians and the harmful words they were saying, (is the 
following): 

“Praise be to Allah, the Eternal yet the New. However the sinful men have 
become my enemy, Allah becomes their enemy. Are you not amazed that this is 
a great matter. Indeed sinners, not satisfied and turning aside from Islam and its 
followers, have deceived some of this community and have filled their hearts 
with the love of discord. They have inclined their passions towards lying and 
slander. They have prepared for war against us and have embarked on putting 
out the light of Allah. Yet Allah is the one who terminates His light even though 
the unbelievers may dislike it. O Allah, they have rejected the truth, so scatter 
their army, break up their words and destroy them for their sins. May him whom 
I have befriended not be humiliated and may him whom I fight against not be 


made strong.” 
ok 2 2 


From his words, peace be on him, urging battle at Siffin, (are those when he said) 
after praising and glorifying Allah: 

“Servants of Allah, fear Allah, lower your glances and your voices, be sparing in 
your words, make yourselves ready for battle, dispute and combat, and to pave 
the way and make the place ready, to be friendly and to be generous. Be strong 
and mention Allah much. Perhaps you will be successful. Obey Allah and His 
Apostle. Do not dispute with one another, for then you will fail and lose your 
spirit. Be steadfast. Indeed Allah is with those who are steadfast. O Allah, inspire 


them with steadfastness, grant them victory and make the reward for them great.” 
28 2K 2K 2K 


188 


Another of his speeches, peace be on him, in the same sense (is the following): 

“Muslims, Allah has shown you a trade by which He will grant you an 
escape from dread punishment and which will bring you great good. It is faith 
in Allah and His Apostle and striving on His path. He has made the reward for 
it forgiveness of sin and beautiful houris in the gardens of Eden. Therefore I 
told you that He loves those who fight on His path in ranks like a tightly-packed 
building. Therefore bring forward the man clad in armour and keep back the 
one who loses (his spirit), bite hard on the teeth. This makes swords stronger (to 
shield) against the head. Twist the edges of lances; this is a matter for the points 
of spears. Lower your glances; it is a firmer bond of the brave and surer for 
(men’s) hearts. Deaden your voices; for that is the pursuit of failure and (quiet) 
is more appropriate for dignity. As for your standard, do not incline it and do not 
desert it. Only put it in the hands of the brave among you. Those who defend 
honour and are steadfast at the revelation of truth are the defenders who are right 
in their opinions and make them public. May Allah have mercy on any man of 
you who comforts his brother with his own life and does not leave his opponent 
with his brother so that his own opponent and his brother’s opponent gather 
against (his brother). For by that he will acquire blame and inferiority will come 
upon him. Do not expose yourselves to the loathing of Allah and do not flee from 
death. Allah, may He be exalted, says: Say: Flight will never benefit you if you 
flee from death or being killed, then you will only enjoy it for a little (XX XIII 16). 


“T swear by Allah that if you flee from the sword which is at hand, you will not 
be safe from the sword of the next world. Therefore seek help in steadfastness, 
prayers, truthfulness of intention. For Allah, the Exalted, will grant victory after 


steadfastness (is shown).” 
OK 2 2k 2K 


Among his words, peace be on him, (are those) when he passed the standard 
of the Syrians and the followers of it did not withdraw from the positions (but 
remained) steadfast to fight the Commander of the Faithful. He said to his 
followers: 

“These men will never withdraw from their positions without a successful attack 
by which life will be taken (from them) and a blow which will split their heads, 
chop down their bones and cut off their wrists and hands. (They will not do it) 
until their brows are beaten down by iron rods and (the blood from) their brows 
is scattered over chests and their chins. Where are the people of victory? Where 
are those who seek reward?” 


Immediately a group of Muslims rose against them and defeated them. 
28 OK OK KR 


189 


Among his words, peace be on him, in the same sense (are the following): 
“These people have not been acting for truth nor have they responded to the 
words of an equal, until the vanguard attacks, followed by the front line (‘asakir), 
until phalanxes are hurled against them, followed by the reserves (jala ib), 
until army after army drives through their land, until the cavalry remains in 
areas of their land with its reins over their river beds and lands, until raids will 
be made in every direction and their standards will shake in their hands. A 
true people will come against them. Their steadfastness will only increase the 
destruction of those of their killed and dead who will be destroyed in the path 
of Allah (by those) renewing obedience to Allah and anxious to meet Allah. By 
Allah, we were with the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, when our 
fathers, our sons, our brothers and our uncles fought together. That has only 
served to increase us in faith, submission and endurance in face of the 
tribulations of suffering and (to increase us) in bravery to fight against the 
enemy and to scorn fighting anyone except equals. One of our men and one of 
our enemies will assault each other ferociously and contend with each other to 
take each other’s life. Which one of the two will make his opponent drink the 
cup of death? At one time it could be for us (to do it) to our enemy, at another 
for our enemy (to do it) to us. Yet when Allah beholds our endurance and our 
faith, He will send down the decrees against the enemy and He will send down 
victory to us. However, by my life, if we were to give an example like the one 
you have just given, neither would religion be sustained nor Islam strengthened. 
I swear by Allah, that you will lose fresh blood (as a result of your inactivity). So 
remember what I say.” 


His WorDS ABOUT THE TRUCE AND THE REVOLT OF THE KHARIJITES 


Among his words, peace be on him, when his followers had returned from the 
battle at Siffin after Mu‘awiya had deceived them by raising copies of the Qur’an 
and thus they withdrew from the fight (is the following): 

“You have committed an action which has pulled down the power from Islam, 
reduced its strength and bequeathed (it) weakness and humiliation. When you 
were successful and your enemy was afraid of being destroyed, for the fighting 
was crushing them and they felt the pain of wounds, they raised copies of the 
Qur’an and called you to (accept) something which was only so that they might 
turn you away from themselves and bring to an end the battle between you and 
them and that they might cause the suspicion of death to lay in wait for you. It 
was deception, trickery. What have you done? You have agreed to what they 
wanted and have given it to men who only asked for it out of deception. I swear 
by Allah, I do not consider you have any guidance after (failing to obey) my 


views nor any resolution (after failing to follow) my purpose.” 
OK 2 2 2 


190 


Among his words, peace be on him, (spoken) after the writing of the document 
for a truce and arbitration and the dispute about it among the Iraqis (are those 
when) he said: 

“By Allah, I did not consent (to do this) and I did not want you to consent. 
However you refused everything except giving consent. So I consented. Since I 
have consented, it is not proper to withdraw after giving consent and to change 
after acceptance. Indeed we would rebel against Allah by breaking the covenant 
and by transgressing its text through abrogating its agreement. Therefore 
fight against whoever abandons the command of Allah. As for what you have 
mentioned about al-Ashtar having abandoned my command to put his signature 
to the document and being opposed to it, he is not such a man and I have no 
fear of him doing that. I wish there were two men like him among you. Indeed I 
wish there was a single man like him among you, who could see in your enemy 
what he sees. Then your burden would be lightened for me. I hope that he will 
straighten some of your crookedness for me. I forbade you (from doing) what 
you did and you disobeyed me. Myself and you are as the man of Hawazin 
described: 

Am I anything with regard to Ghuzzaya? 


If she is mistaken, I am mistaken. If Ghuzzaya are right, I am right.” 
28K OK KR 


(The following is) among his speeches to the Kharijites when he returned to 
Kufa. He was on the outskirts (of Kufa) before entering it. After praising and 
glorifying Allah and calling for blessings on Muhammad, His Apostle, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, he said: 

“O Allah, this is a position where whoever succeeds in it, will be more entitled 
to succeed on the Day of Resurrection and whoever is wrong and commits a 
crime in it will be blind and lose the path in the next world. I commend Allah to 
you. You know that when they raised the copies of the Qur’an, you said: We will 
answer their call to the Book of Allah. I told you then: I know these people better 
than you. They are not followers of religion nor of the Qur’4n. I have been with 
them and I have known them as children and as men. They were evil children 
and they are evil men who seek to exploit your right and your belief. The people 
have only raised these copies of the Qur’an before you as a deception, as a sign 
of weakness and as a trick. You rejected my opinion and said: No, rather you 
accept (this call) from them. I told you: Remember my words to you and your 
disobedience of me. Then when you refused everything except to make a truce 
(kitab). I made the condition on the two arbitrators that they should allow to 
revive whatever the Qur’an revives and make obsolete whatever the Qur’an 
makes obsolete. None of us can oppose the judgement of anyone who judges 


191 


according to what is in the Book. However if (the two arbitrators) rejected that, 
then we would be exempt from their judgement.” 


One of the Kharijites said: “Tell us, do you regard the arbitration of men 
concerning blood (which has been shed) as just?” 


“We do not judge men,” he, peace be on him, answered. “The Qur’an judges us. 
This Qur’an is only lines of writings between two covers. It does not speak. It is 
only men who speak it.” 


Then (the Khariite) said to him: “Tell us about the time-limit you made in what 
is between you and them” 


He answered: “Let the ignorant learn and let the one who knows be confirmed 
(in his knowledge). Perhaps Allah will set right the community during this 
armistice. Go into your city, may Allah have mercy on you.” 


They departed to the last man. 
His WorRDS CONCERNING THE SYRIAN RAIDS AFTER THE TRUCE 


(The following is) among the words which he spoke, peace be on him, when 
Mu‘awiya broke the covenant and sent al-Dahhak b. Qays on a raid against the 
Iraqis. ‘Amr b. ‘Abs b. Mas‘ud had met him and al-Dahhak had killed him and 
some of his men. After praising and glorifying Allah, he said: 

“People of Kufa, go out to a good man, to your army. Part of it has been struck 
down. Therefore go out and fight your enemy. Protect your women if you are 
men who act.” 


[The narrator reported: ] 

They rejected him weakly and he perceived weakness and failure in them. Then 
he said: “By Allah, I wish I had one man of them for every eight of you. Woe 
upon you, go out with me. Then withdraw from me, if it seems good to you. 
By Allah, I am not unwilling to meet my Lord as a result of my resolution and 
perception. In that I would have a spirit which is great and a release from your 
(malicious) whispering, your ill-treatment and your deceit which is like the 
deceit of wilful brides and nagging women; whenever they sew one side, they 


tear the other for their husbands.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


(Here is) another of his speeches, peace be on him, summoning the people and 


192 


finding them slow to go to war. (When) he learnt that Busr b. Arta’a had gone to 
Yemen, (he said) 

“People, the beginning of your unseemly talk and your refusal was the loss of the 
men of influence and authority (ra’y) among you. These were men who would 
meet and speak the truth; they would discuss and follow the just course; they 
would ask and they would answer. By Allah, I have summoned a second time 
and a first, secretly and aloud, at night and by day, in the morning and in the 
afternoon. Yet my call to you does nothing except increase your flight and (your 
turning) your backs. Does not warning and a call to guidance bring you benefit? 


“Indeed I am one who knows what is of advantage to you and what will 
straighten your crookedness for me. Yet, by Allah, I will bring you no (worldly) 
advantage by the corruption of my soul. Grant me a respite. By Allah, it is as if 
you are with a man (i.e. Mu‘awiya) who has come to you, forbidding you and 
punishing you. Then Allah will punish him just as He will punish you. Indeed 
(his actions) are the humiliation of the Muslims and the destruction of religion. 
Indeed the sons of Abt Sufyan summon (men) to wicked vices and (their call) is 
answered. I summon you as virtuous and good men and you are deceitful and put 


me off. This is not the action of pious men.” 
OK 2 28 2K 


Another of his speeches, peace be on him, concerning the dilatoriness of those 
who held back from supporting him, is:'*® 

“People, whose bodies are gathered together but whose inclinations are 
diverse, your words would weaken the firmest of hard-hearted men. Yet your 
actions would make your doubting enemy full of confidence against you. In your 
gatherings you say ‘such and such’ but when the battle comes, you say ‘turn 
aside’. The call of the one who calls you (away) is not strong. The heart of the 
one who will make you endure uncertainties and weaknesses will not rest. You 
ask me to delay defending religion. Holding back (from its defence) will not 
prevent humiliating oppression. Nor will right be achieved except by serious 
endeavour. What house will you defend after your own house (is destroyed)? 
With what Imam will you fight after I (am killed)? By Allah, deluded is the one 
whom you have deluded. Whoever acquires you, acquires the most deceitful 
partner. By Allah, I have come not to believe in your words nor to aspire to your 
help. May Allah make a separation between me and you. May He give me in 
exchange for you those who will be better for me than you. By Allah. I wish I 
had for every ten of you, one man from the tribe of Firas b. Ghanam. It would be 


exchanging dirhams for dinars.” 
28 2K 2K 


18 Nahj al-Balagha, I, no. 29, 72-3. Except for the last sentence. 


193 


In a further speech of his, peace be on him, concerning the same idea, after 
praising and glorifying Allah, (he said): 

“T can only think that these people - meaning the Syrians - will overcome you.” 
“Why is that, Commander of the Faithful?” they asked. 


“T can see their affairs in the ascendancy,” he said, “while your fires are dying 
away. I see them as in earnest while I see you as being weak. I see them as 
united while I see you as divided among yourselves. I see them obedient to their 
leader while I see you as disobedient. By Allah, if they overcome you, you will 
find them evil masters for you after me. It is as if I was looking at them now. 
They have become partners of you in your land. They carry off your share of the 
booty held by the central government to their land. It is as if I was looking at you 
rustling like lizards without taking your due and without protecting those sacred 
to Allah. It is as if I was looking at them killing the righteous men among you 
and terrorising your reciters of the Qur’an; they are forbidding you and hindering 
you; they are bringing other people close to themselves apart from you. If you 
could see the privation, the selfishness, the blows of the swords and the coming 
of terror, you would regret and be sorry for your neglect in going to war and you 
would remember the ease and well-being you had today when the memory will 


no longer benefit you.” 
OK 2 2k 2K 2 


(This is) from his words, peace be on him, when Mu‘awiya b. Abt Sufyan broke 
the terms of the truce and began to launch attacks against the people of Iraq. He 
said, after he had praised and glorified Allah: 

“What is (the intention) of Mu‘awiya, may Allah kill him. He wants me (to 
involve myself) in a dreadful matter. He wants me to act as he has acted. Then 
I would have broken my compact and revoked my covenant. He would use that 
as a proof against me and it would be disgrace against me until the Day of the 
Resurrection whenever (my name) was mentioned. If it was said to him, ‘You 
began it’, he would reply: ‘I did not know about (those raids) and I did not 
order them’. Then some will say, ‘He is truthful’ and others will say, ‘He is 
lying’. By Allah, indeed Allah is the (true) possessor of compassion and great 
forbearance. Forbearance was shown by many of the first Pharaohs and by those 
who followed the Pharaohs. If Allah gives him a respite now, He will never let 
him escape. He is at the watch-tower looking down on the path he follows. Let 
him do what seems appropriate to him. We will not break our compact, we will 
not revoke our covenant. We will not terrorize a man who has submitted, nor one 
who has made a covenant until the terms of the truce between us are proved to 
be nothing, if Allah wishes.” 


28 OK OK KR 


194 


The following is from his speech in another place: 

“Praise be to Allah and peace be on the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family. Indeed the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and his 
family, was pleased to make me his own brother and he described me as his 
helper (wazir). People, I am the very nose of guidance and its eyes. Do not keep 
yourselves isolated from the path of guidance because of the small numbers of 
those who come to it. Whoever claims that the one who will kill me is a believer 
(is wrong). It is time which will kill me. Indeed at some time there is an avenger 
for all blood that is shed. The avenger of our blood, the judge concerning the 
rights of himself and the right of those who are kin, of orphans, of the poor, and 
the traveller, is the one who does not fail to get what he searches for and whom 
no one who flees will escape. Those who do wrong will be aware of it. By what 
kind of change shall they be changed (XXVI 227). I swear by Allah, Who split 
the seed and created man, you will be seized by the throat, Bani Umayya, on 
account of it (i.e. dominion) and you will recognize it in the possession of others 
and in the house of your enemy after (only) a short while. You will be aware of 


His prophecy after a time.” 
28 OK OK KR 


This is another speech with the same idea as the previous one. (He said:) 
“People of Kufa, make your preparations to fight against your enemy, Mu‘awiya 
and his followers.” 

“Give us a respite, Commander of the Faithful,” they said. “He will leave the 
land.” 


He said: “By Allah, Who split the seed and created man, let these people 
overcome you. It is not because they have greater right than you but because 
of their obedience to Mu‘awiya and your disobedience of me. By Allah, all the 
nations have come to fear the tyranny of their rulers but I have come to fear the 
tyranny of my subjects. I have appointed to office men from among you and they 
have been treacherous and betrayed (me). Some have gathered the booty which 
they were entrusted with for distribution to the Muslims and carried it off to 
Mu‘awiya while others took it to their own. Thus they have ignored the Qur’an 
and have been bold before the Merciful. (It has come to such a state) that if I 
entrusted anyone with the handle of a whip, he would betray it. You have made 
me tired.” 


Then he raised his hand to heaven and said: “O Allah, I loathe life amid these 
people, I am weary of hope. Let my companion (i.e. the angel of death) come 
home so that I may rest from them and they may rest from me. They will never 


be successful after me.” 
2 ok ok ok ok 


195 


This is a speech which he, peace be on him, made on another occasion:"” 
“People, I have summoned you to fight against these people and you have not 
helped. I have asked you to listen and you have not answered. I have given 
you sincere advice and you have not accepted. You are present and you are like 
absent people. I have recited to you (Allah’s) wisdom and you have turned aside 
from it. I have given you eloquent warnings and you have refused them. It is as 
if you were scared donkeys who had fled from a lion (LXXIV 50-51). L urge you 
to fight against men of oppression and I do not reach the end of my words before 
I see you scattering from me like the people of Saba’ (after the breaking of the 
dam) in Yemen. You go back to your own councils, you sit in your circles, you 
coin maxims, you recite poetry. You know the news yet when you leave, you 
are asking about poetry, ignoring any other kind of knowledge, careless of any 
other conduct and distracted from fear, you have forgotten the war, the need to 
prepare for it. Your hearts become empty of any talk of it. You occupy them with 
diversion and idle (chatter). It is wonderful, completely wonderful. But it is not 
for me to feel wonder that people have agreed on the wicked plan and to deprive 
you of your rights. 


“People of Kufa, you are like the mother of Mujalid: She became pregnant and 
gave birth. Then her husband died and her widowhood was long. Her inheritance 
was lost to her. By Him Who split the seed and created man, behind you, who 
are one-eyed and keep turning away, is the hell of the present life which does not 
remain and does not leave anything. After it are wolves and lions in various 
packs. So Banti' Umayya will inherit from you. Their number from first to last 
will not treat you with compassion except for one man. It is a tribulation which 
Allah has decreed for the community which is inescapable. They will kill your 
choice men and enslave the wicked among you. They will take out your treasure 
and your stores even from within the bridal chamber as a punishment for what 
you have abandoned of your affairs, the goodness of your own souls and your 
religion. 


“People of Kifa, I tell you of what will happen before it happens so that you may 
be on your guard against it and warned of it; whoever (of you) will be warned 
and consider. Sometimes you say that ‘Ali is a liar, just like Quraysh said of 
their Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, their master, Muhammad b. 
‘Abd Allah, beloved of Allah. Woe to you, it is I who am accused of lying. May 
Allah be exalted, I was the first to worship Him, to believe in His unity. Or (is 
it) the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family (who is accused of 
lying)? I was the first who had faith in him, who believed in him, who helped 


19 This is a composite speech. It contains elements already reported by al-Mufid and references to 
it are scattered throughout Nahj al-Balagha. 


196 


him. No, by Allah, they are deceitful words. You would be better without them. 
By Him Who split the seed and created man, you will know their news after 
a time but that will be when your ignorance has brought you to it. Then your 
knowledge will not benefit you. Disgrace upon you, you mere images, you are 
not men but dreams of children with the minds of the ladies of the bridal chamber. 
By Allah, their bodies are present but their minds are absent from them and their 
inclinations are diverse. Allah has not strengthened the support of the one who 
calls to you (to desert). Nor will the hearts of those who will treat you harshly 
take rest. There is no joy for anyone who seeks refuge with you. Your words 
would weaken the firmest of hard-hearted men. 


“Yet actions would make your doubting enemy full of confidence against you. 
Woe upon you, what house will you defend after your own house (is destroyed)? 
With what Imam will you fight after I (am killed)? By Allah, deluded is the one 
whom you have deluded. Whoever acquires you, acquires the most deceitful 
partner. I have not come to aspire in your help or believe in your words. May 
Allah make a separation between me and you. May He give me in exchange for 
you, those who will be better for me than you. May he give you in exchange 
for me one who will be worse for you than me. Your Imam obeys Allah and 
you disobey him. The Imam of the Syrians disobeys Allah and they obey him. 
By Allah, I wish Mu‘awiya would agree with me to exchange you: it would be 
exchanging dirhams for dinars. He could take ten of you and give me one of 
them. By Allah, I wish that I did not know you and that you did not know me. For 
it is a knowledge that flows with regret. You have wounded my breast with anger, 
you have brought my affair to nought through your desertion and disobedience 
so that Quraysh have begun to say: “Alt is a brave man but he has no knowledge 
of war.’ Yet is there anyone among them who has been longer engaged in it than 
I and are there any of them fiercer in battle than me? I was involved in it when 
I had not reached twenty and I am still in it now when I am more than sixty. 
However a man who is not obeyed has no power. By Allah, I wish that my Lord 
had taken me from among you to His Paradise. Indeed death is looking down 
on me. There is nothing preventing the most wicked of (the community) from 
dyeing (this)” - he put his hand on his head and his beard - “It is a promise which 
the unlettered Prophet made to me. Whoever makes false statements is lost, 
whoever is pious and is truthful about the good is saved. 


“People of Kufa, I have summoned you to fight these people at night and 
during the day, secretly and in public. I have said to you: Attack them before they 
attack you. Only men who are humiliated are attacked in the ruins of their own 
home. You rely on one another and desert one another. My words weigh heavily 
on you. My command is difficult for you. You put it behind you as something to 


197 


be neglected until attacks have been launched against you and abominations and 
detestable things appear in your midst which will be with you at night and in the 
morning. (This is) just as happened to the people of the stories of old (mathalat) 
before you, where Allah gave information about haughty tyrannous despots 
and those weakened by seducers in His words, the Mighty and High: They 
slaughter your sons and disgrace your women. In that there is great tribulation 
from your Lord (XIV 6). By Him who split the seed and created man, what you 
were promised has happened to you. 


“People of Kufa, I have remonstrated with you by reminding you of the warning 
of the Qur’an, yet I have not benefited you. I have punished you with the whip, 
yet have not corrected your attitude towards me. I have flogged you with the 
lash, with which the revealed criminal punishments (Audiid) are carried out, yet 
you have not abstained from unlawful things. I know that the only thing suitable 
for you is the sword but I would not bring about your righteousness at the cost 
of the destruction of my own soul. However, after me a harder authority will 
have domination over you. It will not show respect to the old among you, nor be 
merciful to the children among you. It will not honour the learned among you, 
nor will it distribute the booty for distribution fairly among you. It will strike you 
down, humiliate you and kill the wounded among you in battles. It will hinder 
your path and block you at its door so that it may gorge itself on your strong men, 
on your weak men. Allah will only destroy those of you who do wrong. Rarely 
can one turn one’s back on something and then go forward. I think you are in a 
period (where there is no prophetic help). It is only my duty to give you sincere 
advice. 


“People of Kifa, I have been tested by two or three among you who are deaf 
while having ears, who are dumb yet have tongues, who are blind but have eyes, 
brothers who are not trustworthy at a meeting, brothers who are not reliable in 
a test. O Allah! I make them bored and they bore me. I disgust them and they 
disgust me. O Allah! Let no commander please them and let them please no 
commander. Mix their hearts as salt is mixed with water. By Allah, if I could 
find an escape from your words and your correspondence, I would use it. I 
have remonstrated with you for your guidance until life has become distasteful. 
(Despite) all that you repeat the sneering at my words, fleeing from the truth 
and deviating to the false. Allah will not strengthen the religion of those who 
support (the false). I know that the only thing you do more of for me is to cause 
me loss. Whenever I order you to fight against your enemy, you lower your 
heads to the ground and ask me to postpone the defence of the religion which 
is being nullified. When I say to you in the winter ‘give me assistance’, you say 
‘this is (mpossible) in such a cold time’. If I say to you in the summer ‘give me 


198 


assistance’, you say ‘this (is impossible) in such intense heat. Call us when the 
heat has left us’. All that is fleeing from Heaven since you were unable (to act) 
because of the heat and the cold, by Allah, you are more unable because of the 
heat of sword, much more unable. We belong to Allah and to Him do we return. 


“People of Kufa, an Arab has come to me to tell me that a man of the tribe of 
Ghamid has descended on the people of al-Anbar at night with four thousand 
men and attacked them as if he was attacking the Byzantines or the Khazars. 
He killed my governor there, Hassan, and with him he killed righteous men of 
merit, devotion and courage, may Allah make a home for them in the blessed 
gardens (of Heaven). Indeed He has declared it to be permitted (for them). I have 
learnt that a group of Syrians broke in on a Muslim woman and another who was 
protected by treaty. They tore off her veil and took her scarf from her head, the 
earrings from her ears, the bracelets from her wrists and legs and upper arms, 
and the silver-bands and waistwrapper from her legs. She was unable to defend 
herself except by the repetition of the verse of return to Allah and by calling out: 
‘O Muslims’. But no one gave her help. No one gave her assistance. If a believer 
died in sorrow at this, I would not blame him. On the contrary in my view he 
would be pious and good. The strangest of all is the gathering of these people 
in support of their falsehood and your failure to support your truth. You have 
become a target which is shot at and you do not shoot back. You are attacked 
and you do not fight back. (The enemy) rebels against Allah and you are content. 
May your hands be filled with dust, O men like camels whose masters are absent 
from them so that as soon as they gather at one side, they begin to split up on the 


other side.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


[Among his speeches complaining of his enemies and defending his rights is the 
speech reported by al-‘Abbas b. ‘Abd Allah al-‘Abdi, on the authority of ‘Amr 
b. Shamir on the authority of his narrators, who said:] 

We (i.e. the narrators of ‘Amr b. Shamir) heard the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, say: 

“Since Allah sent Muhammad, may Allah bless Him and His Family, I have 
never seen (a time of) ease. Praise be to Allah. By Allah, as a little one I lived in 
fear. When I was bigger, I fought in battle against the polytheists and made war 
on the hypocrites until Allah took His Prophet to Himself. Then tribulations were 
worse. I have not ceased being careful and cautious. I was afraid that something 
would happen which would make me rise up. I have seen only good, praise be 
to Allah. By Allah I have not ceased striking with my sword from the time I was 
a boy until I have become an old man. What gives me endurance for what I am 
involved in is that all that is for the sake of Allah and His Apostle. I am hopeful 


199 


that the Spirit is near at hand. I have seen its threads.” 


[They reported:] 


Only a few days after this speech he, peace be on him, was struck down. 
ok 2 2 2K 


[‘Abd Allah b. Bukayr al-Ghamawi reported on the authority of Hakim b. Jubayr, 
who said: One who was present when ‘Alt spoke at al-Rahaba told us:] 

Among the things he said was: 

“People, you have refused me. I say, by the Lord of the heavens and the earth, my 


299 


bosom friend promised me: ‘The community will betray you after me’. 


[Isma‘il b. Salim reported on the authority of Abu Idris al-Awdi, who said:] 

I (i.e. Aba Idris) heard ‘AIq, peace be on him, say: “Among the things which the 
unlettered Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, promised me was: ‘The 
community will betray you after me’” 


His WorDS ABOUT THE SUCCESSION AND MEN’S DESERTION OF HIM 


[Among his words, peace be on him, about the consultative committee (shirda) 
(for the election of a successor to ‘Umar b. al-Khattab) at the house is (the 
conversation) which is reported by Yahya b. ‘Abd al-Hamid al-Himmant, on the 
authority of Yahya b. Salama b. Kuhayl, on the authority of his father, on the 
authority of Abu Sadiq, who said:] 

When ‘Umar made a consultative committee (to elect a successor) consisting 
of six, he said: “If two make the pledge to one man (of the six) and two to 
another (of the six), the people must be with the three (i.e. the two men and their 
candidate) among whom is ‘Abd al-Rahman (b. ‘Awf) and kill the three who do 
not include ‘Abd al-Rahman.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, came out of the house, leaning 
on the arm of ‘Abd Allah b. al-‘Abbas. He said: “Ibn al-‘Abbas, the people have 
opposed you after your Prophet just as they used to oppose your Prophet, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, during his life. By Allah, nothing will bring 
them back to the truth except the sword.” 
“How is that?” Ibn al-‘Abbas asked him. 


He answered: “Haven’t you heard ‘Umar’s statement: If two make the pledge to 
one man (of the six) and two to another (of the six), (the people) must be with 
the three among whom is ‘Abd al-Rahman and kill the three who do not include 
‘Abd al-Rahman?” 


200 


“Yes,” replied Ibn al-‘Abbas. 


“Don't you realise,” he went on, “that ‘Abd al-Rahman is the cousin of Sa‘d and 
‘Uthman is the brother-in-law of ‘Abd al-Rahman?” 
“Yes,” he replied. 


““Umar knew,” he said, “that Sa‘d, ‘Abd al-Rahman and ‘Uthman would not 
differ in their view. Therefore whoever among them they make the pledge of 
allegiance to, will have two of them (as supporters). Then he ordered that those 
who oppose them should be killed. He does not care if Talha is killed as long as 
he kills me and al-Zubayr is killed. By Allah if ‘Umar lives, I will make known 
to him his evil attitude toward us which has existed of old and recently. If he dies 
there will be a day which will bring him and me together and on which will be 


the Last Judgement.” 
ok 2k 2K 


[‘Amr b. Sa‘id reported on the authority of Jaysh al-Kinant, who said:] 

When ‘Abd al-Rahman struck the hand of ‘Uthman as (a token of) his pledge of 
allegiance to him on the day of (the meeting at) the house, the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, said: “Marriage relationship has made and encouraged 
you (to do) what you have done. By Allah what you expected from him is what 
your colleague (i.e.‘Umar) expected from his colleague (i.e. Aba: Bakr). May 


Allah spread among you the perfumes of death.” 
OK 2 2 2 


[A group of traditionists (ah/ al-naq!) report by a variety of chains of authority 
(turuq) on the authority of Ibn ‘Abbas, who said:]”° 

I (i.e. Ibn ‘Abbas) was with the Commander of the Faithful at al-Rahaba. I 
mentioned the caliphate and those who had preceded him. He breathed heavily 
and said: 

“By Allah, Ibn Abi Quhafa (i.e. Abt Bakr) took on its clothes although he was 
aware that my position with regard to it was like the position of the axle of a 
mill. The stream (of knowledge) flows from me and the birds cannot rise to (the 
exaltedness of) my position. I allowed myself to let another robe cover me 
instead of it and I turned aside from it. I began to consider whether I should 
attempt to attack (when I would be like a man) with a hand cut off or I should 
endure the blind darkness (of oppression), in which the old man would grow 
feeble and the young become white-haired, while ‘a believer’ would toil until he 
meets his Lord. 


20 This is the famous speech known as al-Shigshigiyya; cf. Nahj al-Balagha, I, no. 3, 48-50. 


201 


“T realised that endurance in this was most appropriate. So J endured while all the 
time there was a mote in my eye and an obstruction in my throat. I could see my 
inheritance plundered until the time of his death came to him (i.e. Abt’ Bakr) and 
he handed it down to ‘Umar. How amazing that, while he used to offer to give 
it up during his life, he should make a bequest (‘aqd) of it after his death! How 
eagerly the two divided its two udders between them: 

How different was my time in its saddle and the time of a man of wicked- 

ness, my brother Jabtr. 


“By Allah, he (i.e. Abii Bakr) directed it towards a coarse direction (i.e. ‘Umar) 
whose touch was harsh, who was wounding in his roughness. The man in control 
of it was like the rider of an obstinate camel. If he pulled its reins, he choked 
it. If he held its reins loosely, he caused it to go at random so that it stumbled 
frequently and its excuses were few. In the name of Allah, the people were 
afflicted with disorderliness, with refractoriness, with constant changes and with 
obstruction until death came to him. Yet even then he made it (the decision of) 
a consultative committee consisting of a group among whom he claimed that I 
was merely one. O Allah! O what a consultative committee it was when doubt 
was stirred up against me through (being put alongside) the leading members 
among them so that I now come to be regarded (as merely an equal) with these 
men as my equals. However I descended (like a bird) when they descended and I 
flew like (a bird) when they flew (acting) out of a patience as a result of the long 
trial (I had endured) and the passage of time. One man (of the group) inclined 
(against me) because of his jealousy (i.e. Sa‘d b. Ab1 Waqqas). Another man (i.e. 
‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Awf) favoured his brother-in-law (i.e. ‘Uthman) for other 
reasons which I will not mention. Eventually the third person (i.e. ‘Uthman) 
among these people arose lifting his chest from out of his excrement and his 
trough. His family (i.e. the Umayyads) rushed to devour the treasury of Allah 
like the camel devours spring vegetation until its stomach is satiated by it. His 
actions brought about his death. The action of the people which shocked was that 
they (came) as messengers to me - like waves of hyenas - asking me that I should 
give them my acceptance of the pledge of allegiance. They were crowding in on 
me so that (my two sons) al-Hasan and al-Husayn would have been trampled 
underfoot and my two shoulders pulled apart. Yet when I undertook the affair (of 
the Caliphate), a group broke their oath of allegiance, another deviated from the 
truth and others acted wickedly as if they had never heard Allah say: That last 
abode is that which we have made for those who seek nobleness on earth and 
not corruption. Good health is for those who fear Allah (XXVIII 83). Rather, by 
Allah, they heard these words and they were aware of them but their own world 
was more attractive to their eyes and its adornments excited wonder in them. 


202 


“By Him who split the seed and created man, if it was not for the presence of 
those present and the necessity of a proof (ujja) to man through the existence 
of such supporters and the fact that Allah does not give the true possessors of 
authority it without them being resigned (to it being swallowed) by the over-full 
bellies of the wrongdoers while the oppressed starve (for their rights) - (if it was 
not for all that) - I would throw down the reins (of the Caliphate) on to its withers 
and I would swallow the last with the cup of its beginning. Then in my view, they 
would find their world scantier than snot from the nose.” 


A man from the Sawad came before him and handed him a letter. He broke off 
from his speech. 


[Ibn ‘Abbas added: ] 

I have never regretted anything nor felt such distress like the distress I felt at 
losing the rest of the speech of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. 
When he had finished reading the letter, I said: “Commander of the Faithful, 
would you continue your speech from the point which you reached?” 


He answered: “In no way, in no way. It was like foam on the camel’s mouth 


(shiqshiqa) as it opens its mouth to bellow and then falls silent.” 
OK 2 2 2 


[Mas‘ada b. Sadaqa reported: I heard Abt ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far b. Muhammad (al- 
Sadiq), peace be on them, say:] 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, addressed the people at Kufa. 
He praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: “I am the master of the white- 
haired men and in me is an example of what happened to Job. Allah will gather 
my family for me just like He gathered his family for Jacob. That will be when 
the globe turns around - and you have been told - and it goes astray and is 
destroyed. Indeed, therefore before that put on the garment of endurance and 
acknowledge your sins to Allah. You have cast off your sanctity, you have put 
out your torches. You entrusted your guidance to those who do not even have 
control over themselves. You have neither ear nor eye, which is (even) weak. 
By Allah, the seeker and the sought are thus. If you had not forsaken your task, 
abandoned support for the truth which is in your midst, and become weak through 
the weakening power of the false, one who is not like you would not have taken 
courage at you, and the one who becomes strong against you would not have 
become strong and (been able) to destroy your obedience and take it away from 
those of you who had it. You went astray like the children of Isra’1l went astray 
in the time of Moses. I speak truly (when I say): Indeed your being astray will be 
doubled for you after me through your persecution of my sons; it will double the 


203 


loss which the children of Isra’1l suffered. If you have drank and filled yourselves 
with the illnesses brought about by the authority of the tree cursed in the Qur’an, 
you have gathered with the one who calls croakingly (to you) to go astray and 
have run to answer the false. You have betrayed the one who summons (you) to 
the truth; you have cut yourselves off from those close to the men who fought 
(for the Prophet) at Badr and you have joined those of the sons of war who are 
furthest away (from the Muslims who fought at Badr). Indeed if what they had 
possessed had melted away, the test for punishment would have been near, the 
covering would have been revealed and the period would have been brought to 
an end. Then the threat (of hell) would be near. The stars would have appeared to 
you from the east and your moon would shine for you like the full moon. Since 
that is clear, come back to repentance and throw off sin. 


“You should be aware that if you are obedient, the rising star of the east will 
take you along the path of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family and grant them peace; you would then have treated yourself for deafness 
and have sought a cure for dumbness; you would have been given sufficient 
provisions against straying from the path and seeking them (outside it); you 
would have cast a crushing burden from your necks. Allah only destroys those 
who refuse His mercy and forsake His protection: Those who do wrong will be 
aware of it. By what kind of change shall they be changed? (XXVI 227).” 


28 2K OK 


[Mas‘ada b. Sadaqa reported: I heard Abi ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far b. Muhammad (al- 
Sadiq), peace be on them, say:] 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, addressed the people at 
Medina. After praising and glorifying Allah, he said: 

“Allah, the Exalted, never destroyed tyrants except after showing forbearance 
and giving a respite. He did not rejoin a broken bone of anyone in (all) the 
nations except after constraint and testing. People, the problems which you have 
faced in the times which have passed are a lesson. Not every one who has a 
heart is gifted with sound judgement. Not every one who has ears can hear. Not 
everyone who looks through an eye can see. Therefore, servants of Allah, make 
your view good concerning (the things) which Allah makes your concern and 
look at the ruins of those whom Allah has destroyed because He knew that they 
were following the practices of the people of Pharaoh. They were people with 
gardens, with fantasies, with farms and high position. Those are the ruins of 
those who were oppressors. Indeed it is everlasting hell which will warn the one 
who sees it of destruction. (It comes) after well-being, joyfulness and temporary 
security and happiness. To whoever is steadfast, there is the happy end. The final 
end of affairs belongs to Allah. How surprising for people with intelligence! How 


204 


would they live amid the rolling torrents and how would they gain sustenance 
without one who was protected a friend and ruler (wali) for His community 
which thirsts in its journey and which desires guidance? For they do not follow 
the tracks of a prophet, nor do they copy the practice of a testamentary trustee 
of authority (was7), nor do they believe in supernatural (things), nor do they turn 
away from sin. How indeed, while they resort to their own minds in ambiguous 
matters? Each person among them, being the leader of himself, adopts in (these 
matters) what he considers appropriate without authorities who are able to 
follow a just path. They will never increase (in anything) except after 
violence. Some are kind to each other, and believe one another in disagreement to 
everything which the Apostle, may Allah bless Him and His Family, bequeathed, 
and in deserting whatever he carried out on the authority of the Creator of the 
heavens and the earths, the Aware, the Knowing. They are people from the 
darkness of caves of shadows, leaders of bewilderment and doubt. Whoever 
trusts to himself, will sink into errors. This is so for Allah has guaranteed the end 
of this path: So that whoever is destroyed will be destroyed with proof (which 
has been given to him) and whoever lives will live with proof. Indeed Allah is 
hearing, aware (VIII 42). What is in greater error than a community which 
shuns its rulers and turns away from its shepherds. O sorrow, sorrow, the heart 
is wounded and grief becomes a habit as a result of the actions of our Shi‘a after 
my death despite the nearness of its love and the intertwining of its friendship. 
How do some of them kill others and how does their friendship turn to hatred? By 
Allah, tomorrow (there is) the family caused to deviate from its root, encamped 
around a branch, given hope of victory from another direction, expecting spirit 
from a place other than which it will come. Every group among them will cling 
to a branch by which they will be taken wherever the branch inclines despite the 
fact that Allah - and praise be to Him - will gather them like the scattered clouds 
of spring, will bring them together and make them heaped together like heavy 
clouds. He will open gates for them to which they will flow, at (the advice of) 
their advisor, like torrents of rain where no land can resist it, no dam can stop it 
and the base of a lofty mountain cannot resist its path. Allah will plant them in 
the middle of valleys. He will make springs in the land for them. Through them, 
He will remove the privation of people and He will make available for them the 
estates of people so that they will take forcibly what had been taken from them 
forcibly. Through them, He will pull down columns and through them He will 
break down the casings of bricks at Iram. He will let them enjoy the stones of 
olives. By Him Who split the seed and created man, what they possess will melt 
away after they have had power in the land and high position over men just as 
tar and lead melt in the fire. Perhaps Allah will gather my Shi‘a after scattering 
them because of the evil day of these men. No man has a right to goodness from 


Allah. Rather goodness belongs to Allah and the matter is all (with Him).” 
28K OK 


205 


The historians (naqgalat al-dthar) report that a man from the tribe of Asad 
stood before the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him and said to him: 
“Commander of the Faithful, there is wonder among you, Bani Hashim, how 
this authority came to be diverted from you. You are the highest in family and in 
connection and closeness to the Apostle, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
as well as in understanding of the Book.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, replied: “Son of a worm, 
you are unstable and the gap is narrow so that you shoot in a way which is 
not straight. You have protection through your relationship by marriage and 
therefore the right to ask. You have sought information so know then that it was 
preference through which the souls of the people were generous while other 
souls were niggardly with it. Therefore leave off plundering the rooms which are 
(already) empty. Pay attention to the disasters concerning the affairs of the son 
of Abi Sufyan (i.e. Mu‘awiya). Time has made me laugh after it had made me 
weep. There is no deceit which the people despaired of. By Allah, through my 
restraint and my dignity they tried to act in a false way with regard to the nature 
of Allah. How very far that is from me. They have mixed drink and dwelling 
between them and me. If the trials of misfortune are taken from us, I would make 
them responsible for the truth in its purity. If it is otherwise, do not give yourself 
sorrows for them and do not console sinful people.” 


SOME OF HIS WORDS OF WISDOM AND WARNING, PEACE BE ON HIM 


May Allah have mercy on you, take your (eternal) abode from your transitory 
(life). 

Do not rend your veils before One from Whom even your secrets are not 
concealed. 

Take your hearts out of the world before your bodies are taken from it. 

For the next life you were created and in the world you are imprisoned. 

When a man dies, the angels ask about what he has brought while the people ask 
about what he has left behind. By Allah, your fathers brought some of what was 
for you. Do not leave behind anything at all, for then you will owe it. 


The world is like a poison which the one who does not recognise it eats. 
OK 2 2k 2K 


There is no life without religion and there is no death except through the denial 
of certain truth. 
Drink the sweet water. It will wake you from the slumber of rest. Beware of the 


pestilential torrid winds which bring destruction. 
OK 2 2 2 


206 


The world is the abode of truth for those who know it and the place of salvation 
for those who take provisions from it. It is the place to which the inspiration of 
Allah has been sent down and the market place of His friends. So trade and gain 


the profit of heaven. 
28 2K OK 


Similar words were addressed by him, peace be on him, to a man whom he 
heard blaming the world without knowing what he ought to say about its (true) 
meaning: 

“The world is the place (dar) of truth for those who believe in it, and a place 
which is to be wiped out for those who understand it. It is a place which is full of 
wealth for those who take their provision from it and the place of prostration for 
the prophets of Allah and a place to which His inspiration has been sent down. 
It is the place of prayer for His angels and the market-place of His friends, in 
which they gain mercy and in which they earn the profit of Heaven. Who is the 
man who blames it when it has called out (for men) to keep apart from it and it 
has cried out (for men) to separate from it, when it has announced its own death? 
Through its own joy it has yearned for joy. Through its own tribulation it has 
warned against tribulation, bringing fear, giving warning, trying to turn (men) 
away and terrify them. O you who blame the world and (yet are one) who is 
seduced into rushing blindly into it, when did it tempt you to kill your fathers 
as a test and to sleep with your mothers under the earth? How did it weaken 
your hand and make your arm sick so that a cure is necessary for them, and 
doctors prescribe for them and medicines are sought for them without your 
search bringing them any benefit, without your (seeking) intercession bringing 
them any intercession? The world has made an example of them for you with 
your killing and your intercourse so that your weeping will not avail you not will 


your darlings be of any use to you.” 
OK 2 2 2 3 


People, take five things from me. For by Allah if you travelled on a camel for 
them, you would exhaust it before you found anything like them. No one should 
hope for anything except from His Lord, nor should one fear (anything) except 
his sins. The scholar (‘@lim), when asked about something he does not know, 
should not be ashamed to say that Allah knows. Steadfastness is of the same rank 


with faith as the head is to the body. He who has no patience has no faith. 
28 OK OK 


Every statement in which Allah is not mentioned is a vanity. Every silence in 
which there is no thought (of Him) is carelessness. Every reflection in which 


there is no consideration (of Him) is an idle pastime. 
OK 2 2 2K 


207 


One who buys his soul and sets it free is not like the one who sells his soul and 
imprisons it. 
OK 2 2k 2K 3 


The one who gets to the shade first has been exposed to the sun. The one who 


gets to water first is thirsty. 
28 2K OK 


Good breeding takes the place of a good family. 


28 2K OK 2K 


The man who is abstemious towards the world increases his renunciation of it 


whenever it increases its manifestation of itself to him. 
2k ok ok ok ok 


Affection is the greatest of traps. Knowledge is the noblest of qualities. 
ok 2 2 2K 3 


If work is an effort then being concerned with avoiding (it) is an act of corruption 
ok 2 2k 2K 


The man who goes to the extreme in rivalry commits a sin. The man who falls 


short in it will be subjected to it. 
OK 2k 2K 


Forgiveness corrupts the wicked to the same extent as it restores the noble. 
OK 2 2 2K 


Whoever loves noble actions avoids crimes. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


Men cast their eyes on a man whose thoughts adorn him. 
28 OK OK 2K 


The ultimate generosity is that you should give what you are able. 
OK 2 2k 2 3 


There is no distance for one who is present and no nearness for one who is 


separate. 
38 2 2 ok ok 


208 


One of the greatest sins of a man is to be unaware of his faults. 
ok 2 2 2K ok 


The perfection of moderation is a willingness to accept what is sufficient. 
28 2K OK 2K 


Generosity is perfected through the adoption of noble deeds and the payment of 
debts. 


28 OK 2K 


Nobility is revealed through loyalty to brotherhood in hard times and easy times. 
28K OK 


If the sinner is displeased, he slanders. If he is content, he lies. If he is covetous, 


he wounds. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


One who is not more concerned with his reason for what is, will more 


(inevitably) come to his death. 
OK 2 2 2 


Put up with an error by your friend for the time of an attack by your enemy. 
28K OK 


A good confession wipes out the act of committing a wrong. 
OK 2 2 2K 3 


What money is spent to make you aware of reforming your character is not 


wasted. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


Acting moderately is easier than acting immoderately and restraint is greater in 


protection than profligacy. 
28K OK 


The evilest of provisions for the return (to Allah) is the committing of a crime 


against men. 
28 OK OK 


No benefit is wasted if it is received with thanks. No grace remains if it is 


received ungratefully. 
OK 2 2 2 


209 


Time is of two kinds: time you have and time you owe. When you have it don’t 


undervalue it and when you owe it, be steadfast. 
ok 2 2 2K 


Often a mighty man is the humblest of creatures and a humble man is the 


mightiest of creatures. 
28 2K OK 


Whoever is not tested by affairs is deceived and the one who struggles against 


the truth is brought down. 
OK 2 2k 2K 2 


If the allotted span of life is known, hope is diminished. 
OK 2 2 2 


Thankfulness is the ornament of sufficiency and steadfastness is the ornament 


of tribulation. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


The value of each person lies in the good he does. 
ok 2 2 2K 3 


People are the children of their own good actions. 
ok 2 2 2 


The person is found under his tongue. 
ok 2 2k 2K 3 


Whoever consults those with understanding is guided correctly. 
ok 2 2 2K 


One who is satisfied with little can do without much. Those who cannot do 


without much have need of wicked men. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


Whoever has sound roots has branches which will bear fruit. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


Whoever gives hope to man regards him with awe. Whoever is deficient in the 


knowledge of anything, shames him. 
28K OK KR 


210 


Part of his speech, peace be on him, describing man are his words: 

“The most amazing thing in man is his heart. It loves wisdom and its opposite. 
If hope occurs to it, ambition reduces it. If ambition rouses in it, covetousness 
destroys it. If despair possesses it, sorrow kills it. If anger occurs to it, rage 
intensifies it. If it comes near contentment, it forgets to be on guard. If fear 
takes hold of it, caution (totally) occupies it. If protection is provided for it, 
heedlessness takes possession of it. If a blessing is renewed for it, (love of) 
power seizes it. If a tragedy befalls it, violent grief disgraces it. If it acquires 
wealth, riches make it unjust. If poverty gnaws at it, misfortune (completely) 
occupies it. If hunger presses upon it, weakness makes it idle. If it has earlier 
satisfied its stomach to satiety, then every diminution of it is harmful and every 


increase of it is corrupting.” 
ok 2 2k 2K 3 


When Shahzaman, daughter of Chroesroe was captured, he, peace be on him, 
asked her: “What did you learn from your father after the Battle of the Elephant?” 
“T learned from him,” she replied, “that he used to say: When Allah controls a 
matter, ambitions are brought to nought without Him and when the allotted time 
comes to an end, death is in view.” 


“How well your father spoke,” he, peace be on him, answered. “Affairs are led 


towards their destinations until death takes part in their control.” 
2 OK OK 


One who followed certain truth and then was struck by doubt, should remain 


with his certain truth. Indeed certain truth cannot be removed by doubt. 
ok 2K 2 2K 


A believer is tired of himself while the people find themselves in comfortable 


position with regard to him. 
28K OK 


The man who is lazy does not love Allah’s truth. 
28K OK 2K 


The best kind of worship is steadfastness, silence, and waiting for relief. 
2k ok 2 2k ok 


Steadfastness is of three types: steadfastness in tragedy, steadfastness against 


disobedience, and steadfastness in obedience. 
2k ok 2 2k ok 


211 


Clemency is the helper of the believer. Knowledge is his friend, gentleness his 


brother, piety his father and steadfastness is the commander of his troops. 
ok 2 2 2K 3 


Three things (which will earn) the treasures of Heaven are: giving alms secretly, 
keeping tragedy hidden and keeping sickness hidden. 


28 2K OK 


Feel need for the one whose prisoner you wish to be, dispense with the one 


whose equal you wish to be and prefer the one whose leader you wish to be. 
ok 2 2 2K 3 


There is no satisfaction for the licentious, no rest for the envious and no affection 


for the weary. 
OK 2 2k 2K 


He, peace be on him, said to Ahnaf b. Qays: 
“The silent is the brother of the one who gives consent. Whoever is not with us 


is against us.” 
28K OK KR 


Generosity belongs to the nobility of nature but over-generosity is a corruption 


of creation. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


The abandonment of a promise to a friend is the motive for being cut off (from 
his friendship). 


28K OK KR 


Rumours of anything among the ordinary people are evidence for the beginnings 


of its existence. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


Search out sustenance. It is guaranteed to one who looks for it. 
ok 2 2k 2K 3 


Four kinds of men whose prayer will not be rejected: the prayer of the just 
Imam for his subjects; the son who is respectful to his father; the father who is 
respectful to his son; and the oppressed man. Of them Allah says: By My strength 


and My majesty, I will support you even after (some) time. 
ok 2 2 2K 


212 


The best kind of wealth is the abandonment of begging. The worst kind of 


poverty is the clinging to subservience. 
ok 2 2 2K 


Good behaviour lies in protection from destruction. Gentleness is the alleviation 


of distress. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


A man who laughingly acknowledges hissing is better than one who behaves 


boldly towards Allah in tears. 
OK 2 2 2K 


If it was not for discussion, the (different) schools of thought would be ignorant. 
ok 2 2 2 


No tool is more beneficial than intelligence. No enemy is more harmful than 


ignorance. 
28 2K OK 


One who widens his hopes lessens his effort. 
ok 2 2 2K 3 


The most grateful of the people is the most satisfied of them. The most ungrateful 


of them is the most covetous of them. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


In such speeches as these wisdom may be gained. We have not included in this 
chapter of speeches, all of those which have been reported with these ideas from 
him, lest by that the speeches would become too diffuse and the book become too 
long. In what we have presented, there is sufficient for those with intelligence. 


213

[[p 25]]
CHAPTER VII 


SOME OF THE MIRACLES OF 
THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


(The following are) some of the signs of Allah, the Exalted, and His clear proof 
of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, which indicate his position 
with regard to Allah, the Mighty and High, and his special endowment with 
miracles by which he was set apart from everyone else through the call for 
obedience to him, to remain steadfast in respecting his authority and closeness 
to Allah (wildya), to recognise his rights and the certainty of His Imamate, and 
to be aware of his protection (from error), perfection and the demonstration of 
the proof of him. 


THE MIRACLE OF HIS WISDOM WHILE STILL A Boy 


Among these are some qualities which make him equal to two of the 
prophets, apostles and proofs of Allah to His creatures and about the 
authenticity and correctness of which there can be no doubt. Allah, the Mighty 
and High, said in mentioning Jesus, son of Mary, the spirit (rh) and word of 
Allah, and the prophet and Apostle of Allah to His creatures, when He mentioned 
the story of his mother’s conceiving and giving birth to him and the miraculous 
nature of that: She said: How can I have a son when no man has ever touched 
me and I have not been adulterous. He answered: As it (shall be), for your Lord 
said: That will be easy for Me and We will make him a sign to the people and a 
mercy from us. It is a matter which is decreed (XIX 21). 


Among the signs of Allah, the Blessed and Exalted, concerning the Messiah, 
Jesus, son of Mary, peace be on him, was his speaking in the cradle. By that 
normal human behaviour was transcended and in it there was great wonder and 
an illustrious miracle to the minds of men. Among the signs of Allah concerning 
the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was the perfection of his 
intellect, dignity and knowledge of Allah and His Apostle, His blessing and 
peace be on Him and His Family, despite his youth and his being in outward 
form still only a child when the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, summoned him to believe in him and acknowledge him, and made him 
responsible for knowing his rights, and recognising his Creator and His unity. 
(He also) entrusted him with the secrets of His religion, the defence and 
preservation of it, and the fulfilment of the trust in it. At that time, he, peace 
be on him, was according to some statements a boy of seven years of age, 


214 


according to others a boy of nine but according to the majority he was a boy 
of ten. The perfection of his intellect, peace be on him, (at that age) and the 
occurrence (in a boy of that age) of the ability to acknowledge Allah and His 
Apostle, may Allah bless Him and His Family, is an illustrious sign from Allah 
which transcends normal human behaviour, and thus indicates his position with 
Him, his special endowment and his being worthy for what he was nurtured 
for the Imamate of the Muslims, and the proof (of Allah) to all mankind. In 
this transcendence of ordinary human behaviour which we have mentioned there 
is a similarity with Jesus and John the Baptist as we have described. If it was 
not for the fact that at that (time) he was perfect, complete and (capable of) 
acknowledging Allah, the Exalted, the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, would not have made him responsible to acknowledge his 
prophethood, nor would he have bound him to believe in himself and to accept 
his mission, nor would he have summoned him to accept his rights, nor would 
he have begun his mission with him before every other person except his wife, 
Khadija, peace be on her. 


Because the Prophet of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, entrusted 
him with his secret which he ordered him to protect and because he set him apart 
by that from all the other children of his time and endowed him apart from all 
others as we have mentioned, that indicates that he, peace be on him, was 
perfect despite his youth, (capable of) acknowledging Allah, the Exalted and His 
Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, before adolescence. This is the 
meaning of the words of Allah, the Exalted concerning John the Baptist, peace 
be on him: We gave him wisdom while still a boy (XIX 12). There is no wisdom 
dearer than knowledge of Allah, nor more obvious than the knowledge of the 
prophethood of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, nor 
more celebrated than the ability of rational deduction, nor more discerning than 
the understanding of speculation (nazar) and consideration and the knowledge 
of the aspects of elucidation, by which one is able to arrive at the realities of 
the unknown. If the matter is as we have explained it, it confirms that Allah, the 
Exalted, caused ordinary human behaviour to be transcended in the case of the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, by an illustrious sign which is 
equivalent to His two prophets whom the Qur’an speaks of in its great verses as 
we have explained. 


THE MIRACLE OF HIS MILITARY PROWESS 


Among the signs of Allah, the Exalted, concerning the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, which transcend ordinary human behaviour is that 
He never endowed anyone else, with regard to fighting in single combat against 
one’s rivals and against heroes, with what is known about him, peace be on him, 


215 


in terms of the vast amount of (fighting) which he had to engage in during the 
course of time. Among those who have engaged in warfare there can only be 
found men to whom it brings disgrace and who acquire wounds and deformities 
through it except the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. Despite the 
length of time which he fought against his enemies, he acquired no ugly wound 
nor was anyone able to do him any harm until there occurred what happened 
at his assassination by Ibn Muljam, may Allah curse him. This is a marvel by 
which Allah set him apart through this sign and endowed him with illustrious 
knowledge of its meaning. By that He indicated his position with regard to Him 
and his being characterised by miracles, the favour of which set him apart from 
all other men. 


Among the signs of Allah, the Exalted, concerning him, peace be on him, is 
the fact that there is not mentioned a single contestant during the battles whom 
he met as an opponent, whom he did not overcome at one time and did not 
overcome at another time. He did not give any of his enemies a wound unless 
that man died of it immediately or recovered after a time. No rival escaped from 
him in battle, no one could escape his blow. For that it is appropriate that there 
was no doubt about his victory over every rival who came against him and his 
killing of every hero who fought. This is also among the things by which he, 
peace be on him, was set apart from all other men and by which Allah caused 
ordinary human behaviour to be transcended at every time and occasion. It is 
among the clear indications of his (position). 


Among the signs of Allah, the Exalted, concerning him is the fact that despite 
the long period in which he was engaged and occupied in warfare and in which 
he was tested by the bravery of his enemies and their leaders, and by all the 
efforts which they made to gather against him and to bring about his death 
through deceit, he never turned his back and fled from one of them, nor did 
he weaken in his position or show fear to any of his rivals. He never met any 
opponent in battle without transfixing him at one time or turning aside from 
him (to another part of the battle) at another time. He would advance against 
him immediately and attack him at that time. Since his conduct was as we have 
described, it confirms what we have mentioned about his being set apart by an 
illustrious sign and a clear miracle transcending ordinary human behaviour by 
which Allah indicated his Imamate and revealed the duty to obey him. By that 
He set him apart from all mankind. 


THE MIRACLE OF THE SURVIVAL OF HIS REPUTATION AND HIS FAMILY 
DESPITE SUPPRESSION AND OPPRESSION 


Among the signs and indications of him, peace be on him, by which he was set 


216 


apart from those who opposed him is the clear appearance of his outstanding 
qualities to both the Shi‘a (Ahdssa) and the general populace (‘amma). (This 
has been sufficient) to force the people to transmit reports of his merits and his 
qualities endowed by Allah and for them to be admitted to even by opponents 
of the proof that there is in them. It has occurred despite the great number who 
have attempted to deviate from him and oppose him and the great number of 
occasions they have been prompted to suppress his merit and deny his rights. 
(It has occurred when) the (control of the) world has been in possession of his 
rivals and has been turned aside from his friends (awliya’). (Despite this) his 
opponents who possess authority over the world and the narrators of the people, 
have not been able to put out his light and to deny his career (amr). Allah has 
caused ordinary human behaviour to be transcended by spreading his merit and 
revealing his outstanding qualities, by forcing everyone to recognize that and 
to admit its truth, and to refute the deceitful attempts of his enemies to conceal 
his outstanding qualities and to deny his rights so that the proof of him may be 
brought about and the justification of his rights may be revealed. Because the 
normal view among those who agree to render his career obscure continues to 
oppose what we have mentioned, and yet it has not been able to bring that about 
with regard to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and the normal 
view has been transcended, that indicates his being apart from the rest of men 
through the illustriousness of the sign which we have described. 


The report is well-known and widespread on the authority of al-Sha‘bi that he 
used to say: 

“T (ae. al-Sha‘br) used to hear the preachers of the Umayyads curse the 
Commander of the Faithful, ‘Alt b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, on their pulpits.” 
He would raise his finger to the sky and (go on): “I used to hear them praising 
their ancestors on their pulpits as if they could reveal their corpses.” 


One day al-Walid b. ‘Abd al-Malik said to his sons: “My sons, your duty is 
to religion. I do not see that religion has built anything which the world has 
destroyed. I see that the world has built a building which religion has destroyed. 
I still hear our followers and the members of our family curse ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, 
peace be on him, suppress his merits and urge the people to hate him. Yet that 
does not bring the people’s hearts anything but closeness (to him). They strive to 
bring the spirits of the people closer to themselves. Yet that does not bring their 
hearts anything except (to make the people) more distant from them.” 


The manner of suppressing the merits of the Commander of the Faithful, peace 


be on him, of the deception practised by the religious scholars and of their 
spreading of what seemed authentic to a rational being reached the extent that 


217 


when a man wanted to report a tradition on the authority of the Commander 
of the Faithful, peace be on him, he was not able to refer to him either by 
mentioning his name or his family background. Necessity required him to say: 
“A man from the Companions of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, told me.” Or he might say: “A man from Quraysh told me.” Some 
used to say: “Abt Zaynab told me.” 


‘Ikrima reported on the authority of ‘A’ isha in her account of the sickness and 
death of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, that she said 
in a sentence of it: “The Apostle came out, leaning on two men from his House, 
one of whom was al-FadI b. al-‘Abbas.” When he (i.e. ‘Ikrima) reported that on 
her authority to ‘Abd Allah b. al-‘Abbas, the later asked: “Do you know the other 
man?” 

“No,” he replied, “she did not name him.” 


“That was ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him,” he told him. “‘Our mother’ would 
not mention any good of him while she could (avoid it).”! 


The tyrannical governors would flog anyone who mentioned any good of him. 
Indeed their heads were cut off for doing that and exposed to the people to make 
them disassociate themselves from him. The normal course (of events) followed 
this pattern for it to become accepted that no good should be mentioned of him 
in any way much less his outstanding merits be mentioned, his qualities be 
reported and proof of his rights be set out. Yet since the appearance of his 
merits and the spreading of his qualities has taken place as we have mentioned 
its being widespread both among the Shi‘a (khdssa) and the general populace 
(‘amma), and since the compulsion of both enemy and friend to report it is now 
established, (this) has transcended the normal course of events as far as he is 
concermed and the nature of the proof of this idea is explained by the illustrious 
sign (of Allah) as we have said before. 


Another of the signs of Allah, the Exalted, concerning him, peace be on him, is 
that no one has suffered such tribulation with regard to his sons and his offspring 
as he, peace be on him, suffered with regard to his sons and offspring. The fact 
is that no terror is known to have encompassed the group of children of any 
prophet, of any Imam, of the king of any period whether pious or profligate like 
the terror which encompassed the offspring of the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him. Nor were any so much subjected to being killed, to being 
pursued from their houses and lands, and to being terrorised as the offspring and 


1 Same tradition reported in al-Tabart, I, 1800-1, but ‘Ikrima is not the authority. “Abd Allah b. 
al-‘ Abbas explains ‘A’isha’s omission to ‘Ubayd Allah b. ‘Abd Allah. 


218 


sons of the Commander of the Faithful were subjected to. The different kinds 
of severity meted out to them did not occur for any other group of people. They 
were killed by murderous treachery, by treason and by deception. It was done 
to most of them during their lifetimes as an example. They were tormented by 
hunger and thirst until their lives were taken by death. This required them to 
scatter throughout the land and to become separated from their houses, their 
families and their countries. (It required) their family background to be kept 
secret from the majority of the people. The fear surrounding them extended 
to keeping themselves hidden from those who loved them in addition to their 
enemies. Their flight extended from their lands to the furthest east and west, 
to places which lacked civilisation and where the majority of the people were 
without knowledge of them. They avoided bringing such people close to them 
and mixing with them, out of fear for their own lives and their offsprings’ from 
the tyrants of those times. All of these are the reasons which should bring about 
the disruption of their organisation, the pulling out of their roots, and the paucity 
of their numbers. Yet they, despite everything we have described, are the most 
numerous offspring of any one of the prophets, the righteous men and the friends 
(of Allah). Indeed they are more numerous than the offspring of anyone else 
among the people. They have extended across the lands through their great 
number and have become more numerous than the offspring of most men. 
They have done this despite their marriages within their (family circles) to the 
exclusion of those outside them and by limiting them to those possessing their 
own genealogies of the nearer members of the relations. In that the normal 
practice has been transcended as we have explained. It is proof of the illustrious 
sign concerning the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, as we have 
already described and explained. 


This is something about which there can be no doubt. Praise be to Allah, Lord 
of the Worlds. 


THE PROPHECIES AND INNER KNOWLEDGE OF THE COMMANDER OF THE 
FAITHFUL 


Among the illustrious signs of Allah concerning him, peace be on him, and 
the special characteristic by which he has been set apart, the miraculous nature 
of which is evidence for his Imamate, for the duty to obey him, and for the 
confirmation of his proof, are the group of arguments by which Allah, the 
Exalted, makes known prophets and apostles, peace be on them, and which 
He gives as signs of their truthfulness. Of these are the widespread reports of 
him, peace be on him, concerning the unknown and (foretelling) things which 
will happen before they happen. He never asserted anything of that without his 


219 


statement agreeing with the report of the event so that in this way his truthfulness 
was established. This is one of the most illustrious of the miracles of prophets, 
peace be on them. Will you not look at the words of Allah, the Exalted, in which 
He makes manifest Jesus, son of Mary, peace be on him, through illustrious 
miracles and signs which indicate his prophethood? J will tell you what you will 
eat and what you will store in your houses (III 49). He, may His name be mighty, 
made similar miraculous signs for the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, when he said at the defeat of the Romans’ (i.e. Byzantines) horsemen: 
Alif Lam mim, Rome has been conquered in the lower lands (of its empire) but 
in a few years after their defeat they will conquer (XXX 1-4). The matter turned 
out just as Allah, the Mighty and High, had said. He, may His name be mighty, 
said of those who took part in the Battle of Badr before the battle (occurred): The 
groups (of the enemy) will be defeated and they will turn their backs (in flight) 
(LIV 45). The matter occurred just as Allah, the Exalted, had said without there 
being any difference in it. He, the Mighty and High, said: Indeed you will enter 
the Sacred Mosque in safety, if Allah wills, with your heads shaved or shortened, 
without fear (XLVIII 27). The matter took place as Allah, the Exalted said. He, 
may He be praised, said: When the help of Allah comes and victory, you will see 
the people entering the religion of Allah in parties (CX 1-2). The event occurred 
as He, the Exalted, described. He, may He be praised, said, giving information 
about the inner feelings of the Hypocrites: They say within themselves: If it was 
not for the fact that Allah would punish us for what we say (LVIII 8). Thus He 
gave information about the inner feelings and the secrets which they kept hidden. 
He, may the mention of Him be extolled, said concerning the story of the Jews: 
Say: O those who have been guided, if you claim that you are friends of Allah 
apart from other people, then you should seek death if you are truthful. Yet they 
do not seek it in an attempt to escape from (the crimes) which their hands have 
committed. Indeed Allah is aware of the wrongdoers (LXII 6-7). The matter 
happened as Allah, the Exalted, had said and not one of them dared to seek it. 
That established (the reliability of the prophet’s) reports and by it He made clear 
his truthfulness. He gave evidence of his prophethood, peace be on him, with 
similar examples, which, to present in this book, would make it too long. 


(The evidence for) this kind (of miracle) by the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, is such that it can only be denied through stupidity, ignorance, 
slander and obstinacy. Can you not see what the reports have made public 
knowledge, what traditions have been widespread and what everybody hands 


down about him, peace be on him? 
ok ok ok ok ok 


He said before fighting against the three groups after the pledge of allegiance had 


220 


been made to him: “I have been ordered to fight against those who break their 
pledges, those who are unjust and those who deviate (from the truth).” 


He, peace be on him, fought against them and the matter was just as he had 
predicted. 


He, peace be on him, said to Talha and al-Zubayr, when they asked permission 
to leave to go on the lesser pilgrimage: “By Allah, you are not going to make the 
lesser pilgrimage, you are going to Basra.” 


The matter was as he had said. 


He, peace be on him, also said to Ibn ‘Abbas when informing him about their 
asking for permission to go on the lesser pilgrimage: “I have given them 
permission despite knowing of the treachery they harboured within themselves. I 
have appealed for the help of Allah against them. Indeed Allah, the Exalted, will 
rebuff their plotting and give me victory against them.” 


The matter happened as he predicted. 
OK 2 2 2 


At Dhti Qar, he said while sitting to receive the pledge of allegiance: “Exactly a 
thousand men will come from the direction of Kufa to pledge themselves to me 
until death.” 


[Ibn ‘Abbas commented:] 

I Ge. Ibn ‘Abbas) was disturbed at that and was afraid that if the number of the 
people was less or more, the matter would bring failure on us. The anxiety to 
count them continued to trouble me so that when the first of them came, I began 
to count them. Their number reached nine hundred and ninety-nine and then the 
people stopped coming. I said: “We belong to Allah and to Him we will return. 
What is the interpretation of what he said!” 


As I was thinking that I saw a person coming towards us. He was a man wearing 
a woollen cloak and he had a sword with him, a shield and (other) weapons. He 
went up to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and said: “Stretch 
out your hand so that I may pledge allegiance to you.” 


“On what conditions do you make the pledge of allegiance to me?” the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, asked him. 


“To hear and to obey and to fight before you until I die or Allah grants you 


221 


victory,” he replied. 


“What is your name?” he asked. 
“Uways,” he answered. 

“You are Uways al-Qarani,” he said. 
“Yes,” he replied. 


“Allah is greater (Allahu akbar),” he said. “My dear friend, the Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, told me that I would meet a man from 
his community called Uways al-Qarani who would be of the party of Allah and 
His Apostle, who would die in martyrdom and the number who would gain his 
intercession was like the number of the tribes of Mudar and Rabt‘a.” 


[Ibn ‘Abbas reported: ] 
Then, by Allah, (my anxiety) left me. 


28 2K OK KR 


Another example of that is what he, peace be on him, said when the Syrians 
raised copies of the Qur’an and a group of his followers began to have doubts 
(about their position) and insisted (that he agree) to making a truce: “Shame 
on you, this is a deceitful trick. Those people do not really mean (to settle the 
issue by) the Qur’an because they are not people (who accept) the Qur’an. Fear 
Allah and carry out your decision to fight against them. If you do not, you will 
be separated into (different) groups and you will regret it when regret will not 
bring any advantage.” 


The matter turned out just as he had predicted. This group of people fell into 
disbelief after the arbitration (between ‘Alt and Mu‘awiya) and they regretted 
the action which they had previously hastily embarked on and made him accept. 
They were separated into different groups and destruction came to them soon 


after. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


He, peace be on him, said as he was setting out to fight against the Kharijites: “If 
it was not for the fact that I am afraid that you would just carry on discussions 
and abandon (all other) action, I would tell you the decision Allah has made 
through the words of His Prophet, peace be on him, concerning those who fight 
against these people (i.e. against the Kharijites) as a result of seeing them to be 
misguided. Indeed, among them is a man with a stunted arm who has breasts like 
the breasts of a woman. They are the wickedest of creatures and the one who 


222 


fights against them is the closest in relationship to Allah among His creatures.” 


The malformation of the man (mukhdaj) had not been known to the people. After 
the battle, he, peace be on him, caused a search to be made for him among those 
killed saying: “By Allah, I have not lied nor have I been lied to.” 


Eventually (his body) was found among those people and his shirt was torn open, 
On his shoulder there was a swelling like the breast of a woman, on which were 
hairs. When the hairs were pulled, his shoulder came forward with it. When they 
were left, his shoulder went back to its position. When he was found, he said: 


“Allah is greater. In this there is a warning for anyone who reflects.” 
28 2K OK 


[The historians (ashab al-sira) report in their account on the authority of Jundub 
b. ‘Abd Allah al-Azdi, who said:] 

I (.e. Jundub b. ‘Abd Allah) took part with ‘Ali in the battles of the Camel and 
Siffin. I never had any doubts about fighting against those who fought him until I 
took part in the battle of al-Nahrawan (against the Kharijites). Then doubts came 
to me about fighting against these people. I said: “It is our reciters of the Qur’an 
and our choice men whom we are killing. This matter is dreadful.” 


In the morning I went for a walk, (taking) some vessels of water with me, until I 
left the lines (of the army). Then I fixed my spear in the ground, fitted my shield 
on it and shaded myself from the sun. While I was sitting, the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, came along. He said to me: “Brother from (the tribe 
of) al-Azd, do you have water for ritual purification with you?” 

“Yes,” I answered and I gave him a vessel. 


He went aside so that I could not see him. Then he came back after he had 
purified himself. He sat down in the shade of the spear. Suddenly a horseman 
appeared asking for him. I said: “Commander of the Faithful, there is a horseman 
who wants you.” 

“Make a sign to him (to come here),” he told me. 


I made a sign and he came. He said: “Commander of the Faithful, the people 
have crossed the river.” 

“No,” he retorted, “they have not crossed.” 

“Yes, by Allah, they have crossed,” (the man) insisted. 

“You are lying,” he said. 


2 cf. al-Tabari, I, 3383-4. 


223 


Then another man came. He said: “Commander of the Faithful, the people have 
crossed.” 
“No,” he replied, “they have not crossed.” 


“By Allah,” (the man) said, “I did not come to you until I saw the standards and 
the baggage on that side.” 

“By Allah,” he declared, “they have not done so. (What you want) is to kill them 
and shed their blood.” 


Then he arose and I arose with him. I said to myself: “Praise be to Allah, who 
has given me insight into this man and enabled me to recognise his affair. He is 
one of two men: he is either a thorough-going liar or (one given) evidence (for 
his authority) by his Lord and a covenant by his Prophet. O Allah, I give You a 
solemn undertaking which You can ask me about on the Day of Resurrection. If 
I find that the people have crossed, I will be the first to fight against him, the first 
to thrust my spear into his eye. If the people have not crossed, then I will go forth 
with him and fight alongside him.” 


We returned to the lines (of the army) and we found that the standards and 
baggage were as they had been (before). 


He took me by the scruff of the neck and pushed me. Then he said: “Brother of 
(the tribe of) al-Azd, has the matter become clear to you?” 
“Yes, Commander of the Faithful,” I replied. 


“Your business is with your enemy,” he said. 

I killed one man from those people (i.e. the Kharijites) and then I killed another. 
I and another of them were exchanging blows. I struck him and he struck me. 
We both fell together. My comrades carried me back. By the time I recovered 
consciousness, there were none of the people (i.e. the Kharijites) left (there). 


This is a famous account which has a wide circulation among the reporters of 
historical traditions (athar). In it the man tells of his own solemn undertaking 
towards the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and (what happened) 
after that. There is no way that it can be rejected or its truthfulness denied. In 
it (the Commander of the Faithful) provides information about the unknown, 
gives clear evidence of his knowledge of the inner conscience (of man) and his 
knowledge of what is in men’s souls. The evidence in it is outstanding which 
could only be equalled by evidence of a similar nature in terms of the greatness 


of the miracle and its clear proof. 
ok 2 2k 2K 3 


224 


Of a similar kind are the narrations which have been reported on a wide scale 
(tawatur) about him, peace be on him, announcing his own death before it took 
place and giving information about the event and the fact that he would leave 
the world as a martyr through a blow on the head, the blood from which would 
colour his beard. The event came to happen exactly as he described. 


Among the expressions which the reporters report concerning that are his words, 
peace be on him: “By Allah, this will be coloured by this.” He put his hand on 
his head and his beard. 


(Similarly) there are his words, peace be on him: “By Allah, it will colour it from 
above.” He indicated his white hair. “The most wretched of the community will 
not be prevented from colouring it with blood from above.” 


(Other) of his words, peace be on him are: “The most wretched (of the 
community) will not be prevented from colouring it with blood from above.” 


He, peace be on him, (also) said: “The month of Ramadan has come to you. It 
is the lord of the months and the beginning of the year. In it the mill of authority 
will change. (Next) year, you will make the pilgrimage in one rank (i.e. there will 
be no Imam). The sign of that will be that I will not be among you.” 


His followers began to say that he was announcing his own death. He, peace be 
on him, was struck down on the night of the 19" of the month of Ramadan and 
he died on the night of the 21* of that month. 


On the same (subject) is what trustworthy men report about him, peace be on 
him. During this month he used to break his fast one night with al-Hasan, one 
night with al-Husayn, peace be on them, and one night with ‘Abd Allah b. 
Ja‘far, may Allah be pleased with him. He never used to have more than three 
mouthfuls. One of his two sons, al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be on them, 
commented on that. He replied: “My son, Allah’s command (to leave the world) 
is coming and I am enduring hunger (in preparation for it).” 


It was only one night or two later when he was struck down. 


[The historians (ashab al-athar) also report:] 

Ja‘d b. Ba‘ja, one of the Kharijites, said to the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him: “Fear Allah, ‘Ali, for you will die.” 

“By Allah,” said the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. “Rather I 
will be killed by a blow on this which will colour this.” He put his hand on his 


225 


head and his beard. “It is a promise which will be fulfilled. Let anyone who lies 
despair.” 


(Similarly) there are his words, peace be on him, on the night at the end of 
which the wretched man struck him. He had set out for the mosque and the geese 
screeched in his face. The people drove them away from him but he said: “Leave 


them, they are wailing at death.” 
28 OK OK 


In a similar vein is the account which al-Walid b. al-Harith and others report on 
the authority of the men (whom they cite): 

When the Commander of the Faithful learnt what Busr b. Arta’a had done in 
Yemen, he said: “O Allah, Busr has sold his religion for the world, so take his 
reason away. Do not let there remain to him in his religion anything by which he 
would merit Your mercy. May Busr survive until his mind becomes disordered.” 


(Later) Busr used to ask for a sword and a sword of wood would be brought to 
him. He would strike with it until he became unconscious. When he recovered 
consciousness, he would say: “The sword, the sword.” It would be given to him 


and he would strike with it. He continued like that until he died. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


The report of these words of his is also well-known: “After I (am gone) you 
will be exposed to my being cursed. For they will curse me. If they give you the 
opportunity to disassociate yourselves from me, do not do so, for I was born for 
(the service of) Islam. Whoever is given the opportunity to disassociate himself 
from me, let him (rather) stretch out his neck (for his head to be cut off). The man 
who does disassociate himself from me will gain neither this world or the next.” 


That matter turned out as he, peace be on him, described. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


There is another report of his words, peace be on him, with the same implication: 
“People, I have called you to the truth and you turned your backs away from 
me. I have flogged you and you have made me tired. After me rulers will rule 
you. They will not be satisfied with this (attitude) from you so that they will 
torment you with whips and iron. Whoever torments people in this world will be 
tormented by Allah in the next. The sign of that will be that the ruler of Yemen 
will come against you to settle in your midst. A man called Yusuf b. ‘Umar will 
seize the tax-collectors and those who collect the taxes of the tax-collectors.” 


226 


That happened as he, peace be on him, predicted. 
ok 2 2k 2 


Then there is the report which the religious scholars recount: 
Juwayriyya b. Mishar stood at the gate of the palace. 
“Where is the Commander of the Faithful?” he asked. 
“Sleeping.” was the reply. 


“You who are sleeping wake up,” he shouted. “For by Him in Whose hands is my 
soul, a blow will be struck on your head from which your beard will be coloured 
with blood, as you have told us before.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, heard that. He called out: 
“Come, Juwayriyya so that I can discuss with you what you are saying.” 


He came and (the Commander of the Faithful) said to him: “By Him in Whose 
hands is my soul, you will be pulled before a rough harsh man. He will cut off 
your hand and your leg. Then you will be crucified below the tree trunk where an 
unbeliever (has already been crucified).” 


Time went by after that until in the days of Mu‘awiya, Ziyad became governor. 
He cut off his hand and his leg, then he crucified him on the tree trunk where Ibn 


Muka‘bir (was crucified). It was a long trunk and he was under him. 
OK 2 2 2 


There is in addition this report: 

Maytham al-Tammar was a slave of a woman from (the tribe of) Bani Asad. The 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, bought him from her and then gave 
him his freedom. 

“What is your name?” he asked him. 

“Salim,” he replied. 


“The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, told me that the 
name which your father gave you in Persian was Maytham,” he said. 

“Allah and His Apostle are true and you are true, Commander of the Faithful,” 
he said. “By Allah that is my name.” 


“Go back to the name by which the Apostle of Allah referred to you and leave 
(the name) Salim,” he told him. 


He returned to (the name) Maytham and was given the kunya Abia Salim. On 


227 


the same day, “Ali, peace be on him, told him: “After me, you will be seized and 
crucified and stabbed by a spear. On the third day your nostrils and mouth will 
flow with blood which will colour your beard. So wait for that colour (to come). 
You will be crucified on the gate of the house of ‘Amr b. Hurayth. You will be 
the tenth one of ten (crucified) men. You will have the shortest timber among 
them but you will be the nearest of them to the place for washing. Come so 
that I may show you the palm-tree on (the timber of) whose trunk you will be 
crucified.” 


He showed it to him. Maytham used to go there and pray at it. He used to say: 
“What a blessed palm-tree you are. I am created for you and you grew up for 


” 


me. 


He continued to frequent it until it was cut down and he knew the place in Kufa 
where he would be crucified. He used to meet ‘Amr b. Hurayth and say to him: 
“T will be your neighbour, so show neighbourliness to me.” 

“You want to buy the house of Ibn Mas‘ud or the house of Ibn Hakim,” ‘Amr 
used to say, because he did not understand what he meant. 


In the year in which he was killed he made a pilgrimage. He visited Umm 
Salama, may Allah be pleased with her. 

“Who are you?” she asked. 

“Tam Maytham,” he said. 


“By Allah, how often I heard the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, mention you,” she said. “He used to commend you to ‘Ali in the middle 
of the night.” 


Then he asked her about al-Husayn, peace be on him. 

“He is at an estate of his,” she said. 

“Tell him that I would have liked to greet him and that we will meet before the 
Lord of the Worlds, if Allah, the Exalted, wills,” he told her. 


Umm Salama called for some perfume and she perfumed his beard. 
“Soon it will be coloured by blood,” she said. 


He went to Ktfa and ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad, may Allah curse him, had him 
arrested and brought to him. He had been told that that man was one of the 
closest people to ‘Ali, peace be on him. 

“For shame, is he not a Persian?” he said. 

“Yes,” he was told. 


228 


“Where is your master?” he asked him. 
“He is looking down on every wrongdoer and you are one of the wrongdoers,” 
he answered. 


“Despite your foreign accent you say what you mean,” he said. “What has your 
leader told you that I will do to you?” 

“He told me that you would crucify me as the tenth one of ten men,” he 
answered. “I will have the shortest timber among them but will be the nearest of 
them to the place for washing.” 


“We will oppose him” (‘Ubayd Allah) declared. 

“How could you oppose him?” he retorted. “He did nothing but give me 
information on the authority of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and his 
family, on the authority of Gabriel, peace be on him, on the authority of Allah, 
the Exalted. How could you oppose these? I know the place in Kifa where I will 
be crucified. I am the first of Allah’s creatures to be bridled in Islam.” 


He imprisoned him and he imprisoned al-Mukhtar b. Abt ‘Ubayda with him. 
“You will escape,” Maytham told him, “and you will rebel to avenge the blood of 
al-Husayn, peace be on him. Then you will kill this man who is going to kill us.” 


When ‘Ubayd Allah called for al-Mukhtar to kill him, a messenger (barid) arrived 
with a letter for ‘Ubayd Allah from Yazid, ordering him to free (al-Mukhtar). He 
freed him and ordered Maytham to be crucified. 


Aman who met (Maytham) said to him: “Would not something satisfy you rather 
than this, Maytham?” 

He smiled and said, pointing to the palm tree: “I was created for it and it has 
grown for me.” 


When he was put on the wood, the people gathered around him at the gate of 
‘Amr b. Hurayth. 

“By Allah he used to say: I will be your neighbour,” ‘Amr said. After he had been 
crucified, he ordered a maidservant to sweep under the wood, to sprinkle it with 
water and to fumigate it. 


Maytham began to speak of the virtues of Bani Hashim and it was reported to 
Ibn Ziyad: “That slave has insulted you.” 

“Bridle him,” he ordered. 

He was the first of Allah’s creatures to be bridled in Islam. Maytham, may Allah 


229 


have mercy on him, was killed ten days before al-Husayn came to Iraq. On the 
third day after his crucifixion, he was stabbed with a spear, and He declared 
the greatness of Allah. At the end of that day blood flowed from his mouth and 
his nose. This is one of the group of reports about the unknown which have 
been preserved concerning the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. Its 
reputation is extensive and the narration of it is widespread among the religious 


scholars (‘ulama). 
OK 2 2k 2 


[Another such report has been related by Ibn ‘Abbas. It has been reported on the 
authority of Mujalid, on the authority of al-Sha‘bt, on the authority of Ziyad b. 
al-Nadr al-Harith1, who said:] 

I was with Ziyad when Rushayd al-Hijrt was brought to him. Ziyad said to him: 
“What did your leader say to you?” - meaning ‘AI, peace be on him — “For we 
will do that to you.” 

“You will cut off my hands and my legs and then you will crucify me,” he 
answered. 


“By Allah, I will make his word false,” declared Ziyad. “Free him.” 


When he was about to leave, Ziyad said: “By Allah, we do not find anything 
wrong with what his leader told him. Therefore cut off his hands and legs and 
crucify him” 


“Wait a moment,” Rushayd said to him, “I still have something (to tell) you 
which the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, told me.” 
“Cut out his tongue,” ordered Ziyad. 


“Now, by Allah, is the verification of the words of the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him,” declared Rushayd. 


This report has also been handed down by those friendly and those hostile on the 
authority of men they regard as trustworthy, on the authority of those persons 
whom we have named. Its content is well known to all the religious scholars. It 
is one of the group already mentioned of (his) miracles and giving information 


about the unknown. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


[A further account is reported by ‘Abd al-Aziz b. Suhayb on the authority of Abi 
al-‘Aliyya, who said: Mazra‘ b. ‘Abd Allah told me:] 
I G.e. Mazra‘ b. ‘Abd Allah) heard the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 


230 


him, say: “By Allah, an army will advance so that when it is at al-Bayda’ it will 
be swallowed up.” 
“You are telling me about the unknown,” I said. 


“Remember what I tell you,” he said. “By Allah, what the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, tells you, will happen. A man will be taken. He will be 
killed and crucified between the two sides of the walls of the mosque.” 

“You are telling me about the unknown,” I said. 


“The trustworthy, the one protected by Allah, ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, 
told me,” he replied. 


[Abi ‘Aliyya reported:] 
Friday had not come when Mazra‘ was seized, killed and crucified between the 
two sides of the wall. 


[(Abii ‘Aliyya) said: He used to tell me about a third thing but I have forgotten 
it.] 
ok 2 2 2K 


Yet a further example is reported by Jarir on the authority of al-Mughira, who 
said:] 

When al-Hajjaj, may Allah curse him, became governor, he sought for 
Kumayl b. Ziyad. The latter fled from him. (al-Hajjaj) deprived his people of 
their allowances (‘Ata’). When Kumayl] saw that, he said: “J am an old man and 
my life is nearly finished. It is not right for me to deprive my people of their 
allowances.” 


So he went and offered his hand to al-Hajjaj. When the latter saw him, he said: 
“T would have liked to have found a way to get you, myself.” 

“Don't gnash your teeth at me and don’t threaten me,” Kumay] replied. “What is 
left of my life is like mere specks of dust. Therefore give judgement as long as 
you are a judge. For there is an appointed time to be with Allah and after death 
there is the reckoning. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, told me 
that you would kill me.” 


“Then that is evidence against yourself,” al-Hajjaj said to him. 
“But the judgement is yours,” answered Kumay]. 


“Indeed,” he retorted, “you were among those who killed ‘Uthman b. ‘Affan. 
Strike off his head.” 


231 


Then he was executed. 


This report is also recorded by the non-Shi‘a (‘@mma) which they report on 
the authority of men whom they regard as trustworthy. The Shi‘a (Ahdssa) 
participate in reporting it. Hence it has been included in this section where we 


mention miracles, proofs and evidence (concerning him). 
ok 2 2k 2K 3 


There is, in addition, the account recorded by the historians (ashab al-sira) on 
various authorities: 

One day al-Hajjaj b. Yusuf al-Thaqafi said: “I would like to strike down one 
of the followers of Abi Turab (derogatory name of ‘Alt). Through his blood, I 
would get closer to Allah.” 

“We know of no one who was a companion of Abt Turab for a longer time than 
Qanbar, his retainer,” he was told. 


He sent in search of him and he was brought. 
“Are you Qanbar?” he asked. 
“Yes,” he replied 


“(Your Aunya) is Abt Hamdan?” he asked. 
“Yes,” he replied 


“Ts your master ‘Ali b. Abt Talib?” 
“Allah is my Master,” he replied, “and the Commander of the Faithful ‘AI is the 
master of my provisions.” 


“Disassociate yourself from his religion, he ordered him. 
“If I disassociate myself from his religion, will you show me another better than 
it?” he asked. 


“T will kill you,” he answered. “So choose what sort of death you prefer.” 
“T leave that to you,” he responded. 


“Why?” he asked. 

“Because in whatever way you kill me, you will be killed in the same way,” he 
said. “The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, told me that my fate 
would be to be slaughtered unjustly and without right.” 


Then he ordered him to be slaughtered. 


232 


This is also one of the reports which is established with regard to the 
Commander of the Faithful, speaking about the unknown. It has been included 
in the section concerning the compelling miracles and outstanding evidence and 
the knowledge which Allah specially endowed to His proof among His prophets, 
apostles and chosen ones, peace be on them. Therefore it follows on from what 


has been presented before. 
ok 2 2k 2K 3 


[Of a similar kind is the account reported by al-Hasan b. Mahbub on the 
authority of Thabit al-Thumalt, on the authority of Abt Ishaq al-Sabi‘T, on the 
authority of Suwayd b. Ghafla, (who said):] 

A man came to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. He said: 
“Commander of the Faithful, I have passed through Wadi al-Qarni and I saw that 
Khalid b. ‘Arfata had died there. I asked forgiveness for him.” 

“Nonsense!” declared the Commander of the Faithful. “He has not died and he 
will not die until he leads an army of error whose standard-bearer will be Habib 
b. Himaz.” 


Aman from below the pulpit said: “Commander of the Faithful, I belong to your 
Shi‘a and I am one who loves you.” 

“Who are you?” he asked. 

“T am Habib b. Himaz,” he replied. 


“Beware,” he said, “you will carry (that standard). Indeed you will carry it and 
you will enter from this gate.” He pointed with his hand to the Gate of al-Fil. 


After the death of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and al- 
Hasan, peace be on him, after that, and the events concerning al-Husayn and his 
revolt, Ibn Ziyad sent ‘Umar b. Sa‘d against al-Husayn, peace be upon him. He 
put Khalid b. ‘Arfata in command of the vanguard and he made Habib b. Himaz 
the standard-bearer. He went there until he entered the mosque through the gate 
of al-Fil. 


This is also a widespread report which the traditionists (ah/ al-‘ilm) and the 
narrators of historical reports (‘athar) have not refused to acknowledge. It is 
widespread among the Ktfans and well known in their circles. Not even two of 
them have denied it. It belongs to the class of miraculous (knowledge) which we 


have mentioned. 
2k ok ok ok ok 


[Another example is the report of Zakariyya b. Yahya al-Qattan, on the authority 


233 


of Fadl b. al-Zubayr, on the authority of Abi al-Hakam, who said: I heard our 
shaykhs and our religious scholars say:] 

“Alt b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, preached. In his sermon, he said: 

“Ask me before you lose me. But, by Allah, do not ask me about a group who 
will lead a hundred astray and which will guide a hundred, otherwise I will 
tell you about the screecher of that group and the driver of it until the day of 
Resurrection.” 


A man rose before him and said: “Tell me how many pieces of hair there are on 
my head and my beard?” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, said: “By Allah, my bosom 
friend, the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, told me about 
what you have asked. For every piece of hair on your beard there is an angel 
who curses you and for every piece of hair on your beard there is a devil who 
provokes you. In your house there is a worthless (child) who will kill the (grand) 
son of the Apostle of Allah. That will be the proof of the truthfulness of what I 
have told you. If it was not for the fact that it is difficult to prove what you asked 
about, I would (simply) have informed you of it. However the proof of (my 
answer to) that (question) lies in the information I have given about your curse 
and your cursed worthless (child).” 


At that time his son was a small boy still crawling. When the (tragic) events in 
the affair of al-Husayn, peace be on him, occurred, he took part in killing him. So 


the event occurred as the Commander of the Faithful had described. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


[In the same way Isma‘1l b. Sabth reported on the authority of Yahya b. al- 
Musawir al-‘Abdi, on the authority of Isma‘il b. Ziyad, who said:] 

One day ‘Ali, peace be on him, said to al-Bara’ b. ‘Azib: “Bara’, my son al- 
Husayn, peace be on him, will be killed while you are alive and you will not help 
him.” 


After al-Husayn, peace be on him, was killed, al-Bara’ b. ‘Azib used to say: “By 
Allah, ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, spoke the truth about al-Husayn being 
killed and my not helping him.” 

He showed (much) grief and regret about that. 


This belongs to what we have mentioned about him giving information about the 


unknown and the prevailing attitudes of men’s hearts. 
28 2K OK KR 


234 


[Another account is reported by ‘Uthman b. ‘Isa al- ‘Amiri on the authority of 
Jabir b. al-Hurr, on the authority of Juwayriyya b Mishar al-‘Abdi, who said:] 
When we set out with the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, to Siffin. 
We reached the plains of Karbala’. He stood at the side of the camp and looked 
right and left. He cried and he said: “By Allah, this is the place where the camels 
will kneel for their riders. This is the place of their fate.” 


“Commander of the Faithful, what is this place?” he was asked. 
“This is Karbala’,” he said. “Here people will be killed who will enter heaven 
without any reckoning (against them).” 


Then he went on and the people did not understand the explanation of what 
he had said until the tragedy of al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, peace be on them, and his 
followers took place on the plain. Then those who had heard his words 
recognised the truthfulness of what he had told them. 


This has been (a summary) of his knowledge of the unknown and his telling 
what would happen before it happened. It is clearly miraculous in nature and 
wonderful knowledge as we have mentioned. Reports conveying the same sense 
are so numerous that their explanation would make the book unduly long. What 
we have presented is sufficient for our intention. 


His MirRACULOUS STRENGTH AT KHAYBAR 


Among his wonderful signs is the ability by which Allah set him apart and the 
strength which he specially endowed to him, and the transcendence of normal 
events through miracles. 


Of that kind is that which has been handed down in the historical reports and has 
become well-known through accounts. The religious scholars have agreed on 
it and both opponents and friends accept it, (namely) the story of Khaybar and 
of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, removing the gate of the 
fortress with his own hand, and laying it on the ground with, his own hand, while 
it was of such a weight that (it took) not less than fifty men to carry it. 


[‘Abd Allah b. Ahmad b. Hanbal has mentioned that in what he reports on the 
authority of his transmitter. The latter reported: Isma‘il b. Ishaq, the ga@di, told us: 
Ibrahim b. Hamza told us: ‘Abd al-‘ Aziz b. Muhammad told us on the authority 
of Hizam, on the authority of Abt ‘Atiq on the authority of Jabir:] 

At the battle of Khaybar, the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, gave 
the standard to ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him. After he had prayed for him, 


235 


‘Alt, peace be on him, began to rush forward while his comrades were telling 
him to go slowly. He came to the fortress, and pulled away its gate throwing it to 
the ground. Then seventy of us gathered around it. It was only as a result of their 
(combined) effort that they could lift the door.? 


This is an example of the special strength with which Allah endowed him. 
Through it the normal (human) qualities were transcended and it became a 
miraculous sign as we have said before. 


THE MIRACLE OF MOVING THE ROCK AND THE WATER UNDER IT 


Another example is reported by the historians (ashab al-sivar) and the account 
of it is widespread among both the non-Shi‘a (‘Gmma) and the Shi‘a (kAdssa) so 
that poets have written verses about it, rhetoricians have compiled sermons on 
it and men of understanding and learning have reported it. (It is) the story of the 
monk in the area of Karbala’ and the stone. Its reputation (is such) that it does not 
need the presentation of its chain of authorities (isndd). 


[It is that the whole group (of scholars) report. ] 

When the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, headed toward Siffin, 
a terrible thirst came on his followers. The water with them had been used up. 
They began to search for water to right and left but they did not find any trace 
of it. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, turned off the main 
road with them and went a little way. A hermitage appeared before them in 
the middle of the desert. He went with them towards it. When he reached its 
courtyard, he ordered those (with him) to call for its occupant to come before 
them. They called him and he came. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him, asked him: “Is this residence of yours near water, which will quench the 
thirst of these people?” 


“There is more than six miles between me and water,” he answered. “There is no 
water nearer than that to me. If it was not for the fact that I brought enough water 
for each month to sustain me, I would be destroyed by thirst.” 


“Did you hear what the monk said?” the Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him, asked. 

“Yes,” they answered. “Order us to go to the place which he indicated. Perhaps 
we will reach water while we still have strength.” 


“There is no need for you to do that,” the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
3 This has already been presented, cf 82-86. 


236 


be on him, told them. He turned the neck of his mule in the direction of the 
qibla (i.e. towards Mecca) and he directed them to a place near the hermitage. 
“Uncover the ground in this place,” he ordered them. 


A group of them went straight to the place and uncovered it with iron shovels. 
A great shiny rock appeared. They said: “Commander of the Faithful, here is a 
great rock on which the shovels are useless.” 


“This rock is over water,” he told them. “If it moves from its position, you will 
find the water.” 


They struggled to remove it. All the people gathered together and tried to move 
it but they could find no way to do that. It was too difficult for them. When he, 
peace be on him, saw that they had gathered together and striven to remove 
the rock but it was too difficult for them, he put his leg over his saddle until it 
reached the ground. Then he rolled up his sleeves. He put his fingers under the 
side of the rock and he moved it. He removed it with his hand and pushed it many 
yards away. When it had moved from its position, the white (glitter) of water 
appeared before them. They hurried to it and drank from it. It was the sweetest, 
coldest and purest water that they had ever drunk from on their journey. 


“Get supplies and quench your thirst,” he told them. 

They did that. Then he went to the rock and took it with his hand and put it back 
where it had been. He ordered that its traces be removed with earth. The hermit 
had been watching from on top of his hermitage. When he realised what had 
happened, he called out: “People, help me down, help me down.” 


They helped him to get down. He stood in front of the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him and said: “Man, are you a prophet sent (by Allah)?” 
“No,” he replied. 


“(Then are you) an angel who is close to Allah?” he asked. 
“No,” was the answer. 


“Then who are you?” asked (the hermit). 
“T am the testamentary trustee of the Apostle of Allah, Muhammad b. ‘Abd 
Allah, the seal of the prophets, may Allah bless Him and His Family,” he replied. 


“Stretch out your hand,” said the hermit, “so that I may submit to Allah, the 
Blessed and Exalted, at your hands.” 
The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, stretched out his hand and told 


237 


him: “Make the two-fold testimony.” 

He said: “I testify that there is no God but Allah alone without any partner. I 
testify that Muhammad is His servant and His Apostle. I testify that you are the 
testamentary trustee of the Apostle of Allah, the one with most right among the 
people to authority after him.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, made him understand the 
conditions of being a Muslim and then asked him: “What is it that has prompted 
you to enter Islam after your long residence in this hermitage in opposition to 
it?” 


“T will tell you, Commander of the Faithful,” he said. “This hermitage was 
built to seek out the one who would remove that rock and then water would 
come from underneath it. Scholars before me died and they did not attain that 
(knowledge) but Allah, the Mighty and High, has provided me with it. We find 
in one of our books and a prose writer of our scholars that in this land there 
is a spring with a rock over it. No one knows its place except a prophet or the 
testamentary trustee of a prophet. He must be a friend of Allah who calls (men) 
to truth, whose sign is the knowledge of the place of this rock and his ability 
to remove it. When I saw you do that, I realised what we had been waiting for. 
The object of desire had been attained. Today I am a Muslim (converted) at your 
hands, a believer in your right and your servant (mawla).” 


When he heard that, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, wept until 
his beard became moist with tears. He said: “Praise be to Allah, by Whom I have 
not been forgotten. Praise be to Allah in Whose books I have been mentioned.” 


Then he summoned the people and told them: “Listen to what your brother 
Muslim says.” 

They listened to his words. Then they gave much praise to Allah and thanks for 
the blessing which he had bestowed upon them in giving them knowledge of 
the right of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. Then they went on 
and the hermit went before him amid a group of his followers until he met the 
Syrians. The hermit was among a group of those who were martyred there. He, 
peace be upon him, carried out the prayer over him. He buried him and sought 
much forgiveness for him. Whenever he was mentioned, (‘Alt) would say: “That 
was my servant (mawild).” 


In this report there are (several) kinds of miracle. One of them is knowledge of 


the unknown, a second is the strength by which normal human capabilities were 
transcended, and (another) is the distinction (of him) from other men through 


238 


the confirmation of the message about him in the first Books of Allah. This is 
validated by the words of Allah, the Exalted: That is their example in the Torah 
and their example in the Gospels (XLVIII 29). 


Al-Sayyid Isma‘il b. Muhammad al-Himyari, may Allah have mercy on him, 
speaks of the same thing in his glorious golden ode: 
During his journey he went by night after the evening prayer to Karbala’ 
in a procession. 


Until he came to one who devoted himself to God on a piece of raised 
ground. He made his camp on inhospitable land. 


O wilderness, it is not (a place) where he meets a living soul other than the 
wild animals and the balding white haired man (i.e. ‘Alt). 


He approaches and cries out at it. (The holy man) looks down as he stands, 
like the defender (looks down) over his bow from a watchtower. 


Is there water which can be attained near the position which you have 
settled at. He answers: There is nothing to drink, 


Except at a distance of six miles and the water I have with me (here) 
between the sandy hill and the vast desert. 


He turns the reins towards the flat ground. He uncovers a smooth rock 
which shines like golden leaf-paste for camels. 


He says: Turn it around. If you turn it around, you will see. You will not 
see if it is not turned around. 


They gang together to remove it. It is impossible for them. It is a difficult 
impossible task which cannot be performed. 


When it had weakened them, he stretched a hand towards it -- when the 
conqueror comes, it is conquered. 


It was as if it was a ball of fallen cotton in a skein, which he pushed in a 
playground. 


He gave them sweet delicious water to drink from under it, which was 
better than the most delicious, the sweetest. 


239 


Then when they had all drunk, he put it back and went away. Its position 
is left alone. It cannot be approached. 


Ibn Maymiin added these words concerning that: 
The signs for the monk were a miraculous secret there and he believed in 
the noble born testamentary trustee of authority (wasi). 


He died a martyr, truthful in his (statement of) support, most noble of 
monks who have become fearful (of Allah). 


I mean that the son of Fatima is the testamentary trustee of authority. 
Whoever declares (their belief in) his outstanding merit and_ his 
(illustrious) actions does not lie. 


He is a man both of whose sides are (descended) from Shem, without any 
father from Ham, nor a father of a father. 


He is one who does not flee and in battle only the striking of his sword 
dyed red (with blood) can be seen. 


His MirRACULOUS VICTORY OVER THE JINN 


Another example is the tradition which has become well-known about the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, sending him to the 
valley of the jinn. Gabriel, peace be on him, had told him that groups of them had 
gathered to plot against him. (The Commander of the Faithful) took the place of 
the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and through Allah 
was sufficient for the believers against the plotting (of the jinn). He repelled them 
from the believers through his strength by which he was set apart from the rest 
of them. 


[Muhammad b. Abi al-Sirri al-Tamimi reported on the authority of Ahmad b. 
al-Faraj, on the authority of al-Hasan b. Misa al-Nahdi, on the authority of his 
father, on the authority of Wabira b. al-Harith, on the authority of Ibn al-‘ Abbas, 
may Allah have mercy on him, who said:] 

When the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, set out against the 
Bani al-Mustaliq, he avoided the road. Night came and he stopped near a rugged 
valley. Towards the end of the night, Gabriel, peace be on him, came down to tell 
him that a group of unbelieving jinn had gone into the valley with the intention of 
plotting against him, peace be on him, and causing harm to his Companions. He 


240 


called for the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and told him: “Go to 
this valley, those of the jinn who are enemies of Allah, who want (to attack) you, 
will come against you. Repel them with the strength which Allah, the Mighty and 
High, has given you. You will be protected by the names of Allah, the Mighty 
and High, which He has specially endowed you with knowledge of.” 


He sent with him a hundred men from different groups among the people. He 
told them: “Stay with him and obey his orders.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, set out for the valley. 
When he was near the side of the valley, he ordered the hundred men who had 
accompanied him to stand close to the side and not to do anything until he gave 
them permission. He went forward and stood at the edge of the valley. He sought 
refuge with Allah from his enemies and he named Allah, may His name be 
magnified. He signalled to the people who had followed him to come closer. 
They came closer and there was a gap between him and them of the distance of 
a bow-shot. Then he began to go down into the valley when a hurricane arose, 
which almost made the people fall on their faces because of its violence. They 
could not keep their feet on the ground because of terror of opposition and 
terror of what would come upon them. The Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him shouted: “I am ‘Ali b. Abi Talib b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib, the testamentary 
trustee of authority (was7) of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, and his cousin. Defy (us) is if you want to.” Persons in the form of 
gipsies appeared before the people who seemed to have torches of fire in their 
hands and they dried up (all) the sides of the valley. The Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, penetrated deep into the valley, while reciting the 
Qur’an and signalling to right and left with his sword. It was not long before 
the persons became like black smoke. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him, magnified Allah. Then he climbed back the way he had come down. He 
stood with the people who had accompanied him. The place became yellow as a 
result of what had happened to it. The Companions of the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, said to him: “Abi al-Hasan (‘Alt), we almost 
died of fear and anxiety for you because of what you met. It was worse than 
(anything else) that has happened to us.” 


“When the enemy showed themselves to me,” he told them, “and I shouted the 
names of Allah, the Exalted, among them, they became smaller and I knew the 
terror which had come upon them. Therefore I went into the valley without any 
fear of them. If they had remained in substantial forms, I would have attacked 
them to the last one. Allah was sufficient (protection) against their plotting and 
He was sufficient (help) for the Muslims against their wickedness. The rest of 


241 


them will go ahead of me to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, in order to (confess that they) believe in him.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, returned with those who had 
been with him to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He 
gave him the news. (The Apostle) was delighted with him and prayed for his 
well-being. Then he said to him: ““‘Alt, those whom Allah filled with fear through 
you have come ahead of you to me. They submitted to Islam and I accepted their 
submission.” 


Then he continued the journey with all the Muslims and they passed through the 


valley in safety and without fear. 
28K OK 


The non-Shi‘a (‘Gmma) report that account as well as the the Shi‘a (khassa) 
and they do not refuse to accept it. However, the Mu‘tazila because of their 
inclination to the beliefs of the Brahmins reject it. In addition to that they deny 
it because of their understanding of traditional reports. However, they are 
following the methods of atheism in imputing error to the Qur’an and the reports 
which it includes about the jinn, their believing in Allah and His Apostle and 
the information about them which Allah gives in the Qur’an in the Surat al-Jinn 
(LXXII) where they say: We heard a wonderful recitation (Qur’an) which gave 
guidance to righteousness and we believed in it (LXXII 1-2) to the end of the 
contents of the sura which gives information about them. Since the opposition 
of the atheists to that is invalidated by the possibility of minds (conceiving) the 
existence of jinn and of their being made responsible (for their action) and the 
proof of this is through the Qur’an and the glorious wonder in it. In the same 
way it demonstrates the invalidity of the accusation of the Mu‘tazila against the 
report which we have given, (when they accuse it) of being impossible to be 
sustained by (human) intellects. Insofar as it is reported by two different chains 
of authority and by two groups to give evidence for two dissimilar attitudes, 
that is proof of its validity. There is no substance in its rejection by those who 
deviate from true justice like the Mu‘tazila and the determinists (mujabbara), 
nor in the denigration of the necessity of using it which we have mentioned, just 
as there is no substance in the denial by the atheists, and varieties of agnostics, 
the Jews, the Christians, the Zoroastrians and the Sabians of the validity of the 
reports of the miracles of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
such as: the splitting of the moon, the bending of the palm trunk, stones speaking 
in his hand, the camel complaining, wild calves speaking, the tree moving (to 
him), water coming from his hands at the place for ritual ablution and feeding 
great crowds of people. (There are indeed no grounds for them) to denigrate the 


242 


validity, the truthfulness of their narration and the establishment of the proof 
of them. Indeed their error in rejecting that, even in finding it weak, is much 
greater than the error of those who deny the miracles of the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, and their proof. Since such things are not hidden 
to people capable of considering them, there is no need for us to explain their 
arguments in this place. Since the special nature of the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, apart from (the rest of) the people has been established 
by what we have described as his being separate from all others in the 
knowledge which we have explained, (this) has made clear the statement of his 
right to precedence over (the rest of) the community with regard to the position 
of the Imamate and his right to precedence over them in the place of leadership. 
(it is further confirmed) by what the Wise Words (i.e. the Qur’an) contain 
concerning the story of David and Talit where He, may His name be exalted, 
says: Their prophet said to them: Allah has sent Talut to you as a king. They 
asked: Shall he have (the right of) kingship over us while we are more entitled 
to kingship than he is? He has not brought any extent of wealth. He replied: 
Allah has chosen him to be over you and increased him extensively in knowledge 
and substance. Allah bestows His kingship on whom He wishes. Allah is (all) 
embracing, one who knows (II 247). Allah, the Exalted, gives the proof for Talit's 
precedence over the community of his people. (Similarly) He gave him a proof 
of (being) His friend and the brother of His Prophet in having precedence of the 
rest of the community through choosing (him to be) over them and adding to him 
a (great) extent knowledge and substance. That is corroborated by similar things 
which have corroborated the right of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him, through his wonderful miraculous nature, in addition to him being separate 
from the people through the addition of the great extent of his knowledge and 
substance. Allah, may He be praised and exalted, said: The sign of his kingship 
is that he will bring you the ark in which there is assurance from your Lord and 
the rest of what the family of Moses and the family of Aaron left, which the angels 
brought. In that there is a sign for you if you would believe (II 248). 


The transcendence of ordinary human behaviour by the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, lies in the knowledge which we have recounted and 
other things similar to the transcendency of ordinary human behaviour by Talit 
in bringing the ark. This is clear. May Allah be the bringer of success. 


I still find the ignorant and the obstinate among the anti-Sh1 a (nasiba) showing 
surprise at the report of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
meeting the jinn, and keeping their evil away from the Prophet, may Allah bless 
him, his family, and his Companions. They laugh at that and attribute the story to 
such useless nonsense. They diminish such things concerning reports of similar 


243 


miracles by him, peace be on him, and say these are forgeries by the Shi‘a, and 
those of them who forge have forged them in order to acquire (prestige) and in 
order to defend desperately (their beliefs). This is exactly what all the atheists 
(zanadiqa) and the enemies of Islam say about what the Qur’an mentions with 
regard to the report of the jinn and their submission to Islam in its words: We 
heard a wonderful recitation (Qur’Gn) which gave guidance to righteousness 
and we believed in it (LXXII 1-2). (They take a similar attitude) about the report 
of Ibn Mas‘td concerning the story of the night of the jinn and him seeing them 
like gipsies. (They also have the same view) of the miracles of the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. They show surprise at all of these 
and laugh when they hear the account of them, dispute their authenticity, mock 
and talk nonsense in a slanderous way in which they conduct themselves against 
Islam and its followers, regarding as stupid those who believe in it and support 
it, accusing the followers of Islam of deficiency and ignorance, and forging false 
stories. Let the people examine the crime which they have committed against 
Islam by their hostility to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and 
their relying on removing his virtues, noble actions and signs by which they 
resemble the classes of the atheists (zanddiqa) and unbelievers through their 
departure from the roads of (true) proofs into the gates of deviation and 
ignorance. In Allah do we seek help. 


His SENDING BACK THE SUN 


Among the wonderful signs which Allah, the Exalted, has brought forth through 
the hands of the Commander of the Faithful, ‘Alt b. Abr Talib, is one, the 
reports of which have become widespread among the biographers and historians 
(‘ulama’ al-siyar wa al-athar) and about which the poets have composed verses 
(namely) when he, peace be on him, sent back the sun (to its earlier position) 
on two occasions, once during the life of the Prophet and another time after his 
death. 


The account of it being sent back on the first occasion has been reported by 
Asma’ daughter of ‘Umays, Umm Salama, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah al-Ansari, Abi Sa‘id al-Khudri 
and a group of the Companions. 


One day the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was in his house and 
“Ali, peace be on him, was in front of him when Gabriel, peace be on him, came 
to him to speak privately to him about Allah. When inspiration closed in upon 
him, he used the thigh of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, as a 
pillow. He did not raise his head from it until the sun had set. Thus he compelled 


244 


the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, (to remain) in that position. 
So he prayed the afternoon prayer sitting, giving a nod (with his head) for his 
bowing and prostration. When (the Apostle) awoke from his trance, he said to the 
Commander of the Faithful: “Have you missed the afternoon prayer?” 


“T could not pray it standing because of your position, Apostle of Allah, and the 
circumstances of hearing inspiration which I was in,” he answered. 


“Ask Allah to send the sun back for you so that you may pray it standing at its 
proper time just as (it was) when you missed being able to do it,” he told him. 
“Allah, the Exalted, will answer you because of your obedience to Allah and to 
His Apostle.” 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, asked Allah to send back the 
sun. It was sent back for him so that it came into its position in the sky at the 
time for the afternoon prayer. The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
prayed the afternoon prayer at its proper time. Then it set. [Asma’ reported:] 


By Allah we heard it at its setting, screeching like the screech of the saw in wood. 
ok 2 2 2 


Its being sent back for him after the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, was when he wanted to cross the Euphrates at Babylon, many of his 
followers were occupied in taking their animals and baggage across. He, peace 
be on him, prayed the afternoon prayer himself with a group who were with him. 
The people did not finish their crossing and many of them missed the time of the 
prayer. The people recalled the merit of being together for that (prayer) and they 
spoke about that. When he heard their talk about it, he asked Allah to send back 
the sun so that all his followers might be together to perform the afternoon prayer 
at its proper time. Allah, the Exalted, answered him by sending back the sun for 
him. The horizons became such as they are for the time of the afternoon prayer. 
When the people had said the final greeting (at the end of the prayer), the sun 
disappeared and a violent throbbing was heard from it which terrified the people. 
They became profuse in their glorification of Allah, in their declarations of His 
uniqueness, and in seeking forgiveness from him, and in praising Allah for the 
favour which he had shown to them. 


The reports of that have reached the (distant) horizons and its account is 
widespread among the people. Concerning that al-Sayyid b. Muhammad al- 
Himyart, may Allah have mercy on him, recited: 
The sun was sent back for him when he missed the time of the afternoon 
prayer and sunset had drawn near. 


245 


So that its light shone (the same as) at its time for the afternoon. Then it 
fell like a shooting star. 


For him it was sent back another time at Babylon. It has not been sent back 
for any Arab creature, 


Only so that his first (view of it) may be mixed with his later (view of it) 
and so that it being sent back may be an explanation of a wondrous matter. 


THE MIRACLE OF SPEAKING TO THE FISH 


Similar to that is (the account) which the historians (ahl al-athar) report and 
which has become famous among the Kifans because of it being widespread 
among them. Hence the report has spread to other people in other places. The 
scholars also confirm it. (It is) that the fish talked to him at the Euphrates by 
Kufa. 


[They report:] 

The waters of the Euphrates overflowed and grew so big that the people of 
Kufa became anxious about drowning. They resorted to the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him. He rode out on the mule of the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, and the people went with him until he reached 
the banks of the Euphrates. He, peace be on him, dismounted and performed the 
ritual ablution and prayed alone, by himself, while the people watched him. Then 
he called on Allah with prayers which most of them heard. He went towards the 
Euphrates, leaning on a stick which was in his hand. He struck the surface of the 
water with it and said: “Abate, with Allah’s permission and His will.” 


The waters sank so that the fish at the bottom (of the flood) appeared. Many of 
them greeted him with title of the Commander of the Faithful. However some 
kinds of fish did not speak. They were eels, a scaleless fish (marmaliq) and mud 
fish (zumar). The people were amazed at that and they asked for the reason that 
the ones who spoke spoke and the ones who were silent were silent. He said: 
“Allah made those fish which were ritually pure speak to me and he kept those 
silent towards me which were forbidden, impure and worse.” 


This is a widespread report, the fame of which is, through its transmission 
and narration, like the fame of the wolves speaking to the Prophet, the stones 
praising Allah in the palm of his hand, the trunk of the tree bending towards 
him and the feeding of many with little food. Whoever continues to find fault 


246 


with (‘Ali’s miracles) is one who can only find the doubts about it in what the 
denigrators depend upon, in what we have enumerated of the miracles of the 
Apostle. 


THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL AND THE JINN 


The historians (hamalat al-athar wa ruwat al-akhbar) have also reported the 
story of the snake and the sign and miraculous nature of it which is like the story 
of the fishes and the abating of the waters of the Euphrates. 


[They reported:] 

One day the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was making a speech 
on the pulpit at Ktfa, when a snake appeared at the side of the pulpit and 
began to climb up until it was near the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
him. The people shook with fear at that and were worried about its purpose and 
about driving it away from the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. He 
signalled to them to keep away from it. When it reached the raised platform on 
which the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was standing, he bent 
down towards the snake and the snake spread itself up towards him so that it 
could gobble his ear. 


The people fell silent and became distraught at that. It made a croaking 
sound which many of them heard. Then it went down from its position. The 
Commander of the Faithful moved his lips in a whisper and the snake acted as 
if it was listening to him. Then it glided away. The ground had swallowed it up. 
The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, went on with his speech and 
brought it to a close. 


When he had finished it and gone down, the people gathered around him, 
questioning him about the circumstances of the snake and the wonder of it. He 
told them: “That was not as you had thought. It was only one of the judges of the 
jinn, whom a case had confused. He came to me to find out from me about it. I 


informed him about it. He wished me well and departed.” 
ok 2 2 2K 


Often the ignorant among the people regard the appearance of jinn in the form 
of animals which cannot speak as impossible. However, that was well-known 
by the Arabs, before the mission (of the Prophet) and after it, and reports from 
people belonging to Islam corroborate it. Nor is it more unlikely than the report 
which is agreed on by Muslims (ah al-qibla) of the appearance of the Devil to 
the people in the assembly building in the form of an old man from Najd, and 


247 


his agreement with them to deceive the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, and of his appearing to the polytheists at the Battle of Badr in 
the form of Saraqa b. Ja‘sham al-Madlijt. He, the Exalted, said: There will be no 
conqueror of you among the people today. Iam one who grants you neighbourly 
protection (VII 48). Allah, the Mighty and High, said: When the two groups 
looked at each other, he turned on his heels and said: I am innocent of you. I see 
what you do not see. I fear Allah. Allah is violent in His punishment (VIII 48). 


All who continue to find fault with the signs which we have mentioned only say 
about them the same as the atheists and unbelievers among the opponents of 
religion, say. They find fault with them in the same way as they find fault 
with the signs of the Prophet in confirmation of his prophethood, and with the 
validity of the miracles of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. 


SOME OTHER MIRACLES OF THE COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


[Another example is reported by ‘Abd al-Qahir b. ‘Abd al-Malik b. ‘Ata’ al- 
Ashja‘T on the authority of al-Walid b. ‘Imran al-Bajali, on the authority of Jami‘ 
b. ‘Umayr, who said:] 

‘Ali, peace be on him, suspected a man called al-Ghayzar of giving information 
to Mu‘awiya. He denied that and disputed it. The Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, said: “Do you swear by Allah that you have not done so?” 
“Yes,” he answered and he hurried forward and took the oath. 

“If you are a liar,” the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, told him, 
“Allah will blind you.” 


The Friday had not come when he was brought out blind, being led. Allah had 


taken away his sight. 
28 2K 2K 


[Of the same kind is what is reported by Isma‘il b. ‘Umayr, who said: Mis‘ar b. 
Kidam told me: Talha b. ‘Umayra told us:] 

‘Alt, peace be on him, recited the words of the Prophet to the people: To 
whomsoever I am his master (mawla), ‘Ali is his master. Twelve men from the 
Ansar testified to that but Anas b. Malik was among the people who did not give 
testimony to it. The Commander of the Faithful, said to him: “Anas.” 

“At your service,” he replied 


“What stopped you from testifying?” he asked. “You have heard what they 
heard.” 


248 


“Commander of the Faithful,’ he replied, “I have grown old and I have 
forgotten.” 


“O Allah,” the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, prayed, “if he is a 
liar, strike him with leprosy” - [or he said a word for it which is understood by 
the ordinary people]. 


[Talha reported: ] 
“T testify before Allah, I saw a whiteness (of leprosy) between his eyes.” 


[Similarly Abu Isra‘1 has reported on the authority of al-Hakam b. Abi Salman, 
the mu ‘adhdhin, on the authority of Zayd b. Arqam, who said:] 

“Ali, peace be on him, recited before the people in the mosque and said: “May 
Allah adjure to arise any man who heard the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, say: Jo whomsoever I am his master (mawla), ‘Ali is his master. 
O Allah, be a friend to those who befriend him and an enemy to those who are 
hostile to him.” 


Twelve men, who fought at Badr, stood up, six on the right and six on the left, 
and they testified to that. 


[Zayd b. Arqam added:] 
I was among those who heard that but I kept it hidden. Then Allah took away 
my sight. 


He used to regret failing to give testimony and he used to seek forgiveness from 
Allah. 


28 2K OK 


[Another example is what is reported by ‘Alt b. Mushir on the authority of al- 
A‘mash, on the authority of Musa b. Tarif, on the authority of ‘Abaya and (also 
it is reported on the authority of) Musa b. Ukayl al-Numayri, on the authority 
of ‘Imran b. Maytham on the authority of ‘Abaya. (It is further reported on the 
authority of) Musa al-Wajihi, on the authority of al-Minhal b. ‘Umar, and on 
the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. al-Harith, ‘Uthman b. Sa‘id, and ‘Abd Allah b. 
Bukayr, on the authority of Hakim b. Jubayr: They (all) said:] 

We witnessed ‘Alt, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, on the 
pulpit saying: “I am the servant of Allah, the brother of the Apostle of Allah. I 
have inherited the blessing from the Apostle. I have married the mistress of the 
women of Heaven. I am the master of the testamentary trustees of authority, and 
those who are the last trustees of the Prophet. No one except me can claim that 


249 


without Allah striking him with evil.” 


Aman from (the tribe of) ‘Abs who was sitting in front of the people said: ““Who 
is not good enough to say this. I am the servant of Allah, the brother of the 
Apostle of Allah.” 


He had not left his place when the Devil caught hold of him and dragged him by 
his leg to the door of the mosque. His people asked us about him and we said: 
“Did you know him to be a man of (stupid) risks before this?” 


“O Allah, no,” they answered. 


[Al-Shaykh al-Mufid, may Allah be pleased with him, says:] 

The reports about similar things to what we have mentioned are (such) that the 
book would become too long as a result of them. We have put forward in this 
book of ours sufficiency in its outline to do without what is similar to them. We 
ask Allah for success and we seek help from Him along the path of guidance. 


250

[[p 26]]
CHAPTER VIII 


THE CHILDREN OF THE 
COMMANDER OF THE FAITHFUL 


(This is) an account of the children of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him, their number and names, and a selection of reports about them. 


The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, had twenty-seven children, 
male and female: 

1. Al-Hasan 

2. Al-Husayn 

3. Zaynab the elder 

4. Zaynab the younger, who was given the kunya Umm Kulthim. 
Their mother was Fatima, the blessed, mistress of the women of the worlds, 
daughter of the master of those sent by Allah and the seal of the prophets, the 
Prophet Muhammad. 


5. Muhammad, who was given the kunya Abi al-Qasim. 
His mother was Khawla, daughter of Ja‘far b. Qays al-Hanafi. 


6. ‘Umar 
7. Rugayya 
They were twins. Their mother was Umm Habib, daughter of Rabi‘a. 
8. Al-‘Abbas 
9. Ja‘far 
10. ‘Uthman 


11. ‘Abd Allah 
(The last four) were martyrs with their brother al-Husayn on the plain of Karbala’. 
Their mother was Umm al-Banin', daughter of Hizam b. Khalid b. Darim. 


12. Muhammad, the younger, who was given the kunya Abt Bakr. 

13. ‘Ubayd Allah 
Both of these were martyrs with their brother al-Husayn on that plain. Their 
mother was Layla, daughter of Mas‘td al-Darim1. 


1 Her actual name was Fatima, daughter of Hizam b. Khalid b. Darim. Because she had four sons, 
she commonly known as Umm al-Banin (“mother of several sons”). 


251 


14. Yahya 
His mother was Asma’, daughter of ‘Umays al-Khath‘ami, may Allah be pleased 
with her. 


15. Umm al-Hasan 

16. Ramla 
The mother of these two was Umm Sa‘td, daughter of ‘Urwa b. Mas‘id al- 
Thagqaft. 


17. Nafisa 
18. Zaynab, the youngest 
19. Ruqayya, the younger 
20. Umm Hani’ 
21. Umm al-Kiram 
22. Jumana, who was given the kunya Umm Ja‘far. 
23. Umana 
24. Umm Salama 
25. Maymiina 
26. Khadija 
27. Fatima 
These, the blessings of Allah be on them, had different mothers. 


Among the Shia, there are those who mention that Fatima, the blessing of Allah 
be on her, after the Prophet had a miscarriage with a son, whom the Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, had (already) named during her pregnancy 
as Muhsin.’ According to this group there were twenty-eight children of the 
Commander of the Faithful, the blessing and peace of Allah be on him. Allah 
knows and judges best. 


2 There were many sources that clearly confirm the presence of Mohsen among the children of 
Fatima and ‘Alt peace be upon them, this is not confined within the limits of Shi‘ite books, 
Indeed, many of the books of the non-Shi‘a ( ‘@mma) mention this matter, and they agreed to his 
existence without comment or hesitation, see: A/-Kafi, 6:18/2; Al-Khisal, 634; Tarikh Ya ‘qubi, 
2:213; Managqib by Ibn Schahrashub, 3:358; Tarikh al-Tabari, 5:153; Tarikh by Ibn Athir, 3:397; 
Ansab al-Ashraf of al-Baladhiri, 2:189; al-Asaba by Ibn Hajar, 3:471; Lisan al-Mizan of al- 
Dahabi, 268; Mizan al-I ‘tidal, 1:139; al-Qamus al-Muhit of Firuzabadi, 2:55, and other various 
sources 


252 


PART II 


THE LIFE OF 
THE OTHER IMAMS

[[p 27]]
CHAPTER I 


IMAM AL-HASAN B. ‘ALI 


(This is) an account of the Imam after the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, the date of his birth, the evidence for his Imamate, the period of his 
succession, the time of his death, the place of his grave and the number of 
Children. (It also provides) a brief summary of the reports about him. 


The Imam after the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was his son 
al-Hasan, the son of the mistress of the women of the worlds, Fatima, daughter 
of Muhammad, the Lord of Messengers, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 
(Al-Hasan’s) Kunya was Abt Muhammad. He was born in Medina, on the night 
of the middle day of the month of Ramadan, three years after the Hijra (624). 


His mother, Fatima, peace be on her, brought him to the Prophet, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, on the seventh day in a silken shawl from heaven, which 
Gabriel had brought down to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 
He called him Hasan and sacrificed a ram for him (in the ceremony of ‘agiqa).' 


[It is reported by a group (of authorities), including Ahmad b. Salih al-Tamtmi, 
on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b ‘Isa on the authority of Ja‘far al-Sadiq b. 
Muhammed, peace be on him:] 

Al-Hasan, peace be upon him, was the most similar person to Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, in form, manner and nobility. 


[It is reported by a group (of authorities), including Ma‘mar on the authority of 
al-Zuhri on the authority of Anas b. Malik, who said:] 

No one was like the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, than 
Al-Hasan b. ‘Alt, peace be on them. 


[Ibrahim ibn ‘Ali al-Rafi‘l reported on the authority of his father, on the 
authority of his grandmother Zainab, dauther of Abii Rafi‘t, and Shabib b. Abi 
Rafi‘ al-Rafi‘l on the authority of those who told him - she said:] 

Fatima, peace be on her, brought her two sons, al-Hasan and al-Hussain, peace 
be on them, to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, at the 
time when he was suffering from the sickness from which he died. 


“Apostle of Allah,” she said, “these are your two (grand)sons. Give them 
something as an inheritance” 


1 ‘Agiqa is a ceremony in which the child’s hair is shaved and a sheep sacrificed 


254 


“As for al-Hasan’”, he replied, “he has my form and my nobility. As for al- 
Husayn, he has my generosity and my bravery” 


Al-Hasan b. ‘Alt, peace be on him, was the testamentary trustee (was7) of the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, over his family, his children and 
his followers. He bequeathed him to look after his position and (the position of) 
his taxes (sadaqdt) and he wrote him a covenant (of succession) which is well- 
known. His testamentary trustee is obvious in terms of the outlines of religion, 
the essential characteristics of wisdom and good-breeding. A great number of 
scholars have reported this trusteeship and many of the men of understanding 
have realised the truth of this through his (attitude to) the world. 


AL-HASAN’S SUCCESSION TO THE CALIPHATE AND HIS ABDICATION 


When the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, died, Al-Hasan 
addressed the people. He reminded them of his right (to authority). The followers 
of his father pledged allegiance to him in terms of fighting those he fought and 
making peace with those with whom he made peace. 


[Abt Mikhnaf Lit b. Yahya al-Azdi reported: Ash‘ath b. Suwar told me on the 
authority of Abi Ishaq al-Sabr‘l and others, who said:]? 

Al-Hasan b. ‘Ali, peace be upon them, addressed the people towards dawn 
on the night in which the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, died. 
He praised and glorified Allah and blessed the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. Then he said: “There has died tonight a man who 
was the first among the early (Muslims) in (good) actions. Nor did any later 
(Muslims) attain his level in (good) actions. He used to fight alongside the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and protect him with 
his own life. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, used 
to send him forward with his standard while Gabriel supported him on his right 
and Michael supported him on his left. He would not return until Allah brought 
victory through his hands. He, peace be on him, has died on this the night on 
which Jesus, Son of Mary, was taken up (to Heaven), on which Joshua, son of 
Nun, the testamentary trustee (was7) of Moses, peace be on him, died. He has 
left behind him no gold and silver except seven hundred dirhams of his stipend 
(‘ata’), with which he was intending to buy a servant for his family.” Then tears 
overcame him and he wept and the people wept with him. 


Then he continued: “I am the (grand)son of the one Who brought the good 


2 The isndd is not as full as Abii al-Faraj al-Isfahani’s but the rest of the account follows his, with 
occasional variations, c.f. Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 51-70. 


255 


news. I am the (grand)son of the warner. I am the (grand)son of the man who, 
with Allah’s permission, summoned (the people) to Allah. I am the (grand)son 
of the light which shone out (to the world). I am of the House, from whom 
Allah has sent away abomination and whom Allah has purified thoroughly. I 
am of the House for whom Allah has required love in his Book, when Allah, the 
Most High, said: Say. J do not ask you for any reward except love for (my) near 
relatives; Whoever earns good, will increase good for hmself (XLII 23). The 
good is love for us, the House.” Then he sat down. 


“Abd Allah b. al-‘Abbas, may Allah have mercy on him, arose in front of him and 
said: “People, this is the son of your Prophet, the testamentary trustee (wasi) of 
your Imam. So pledge allegiance to him” 


The people answered him saying: “No one is more loved by us nor has anyone 
more right to succession (khilafa).” 


They rushed forward to pledge allegiance to him as successor. That was on 
Friday on the eleventh of the month of Ramadan in the year 40 A H. (660). 
Then he assigned (the posts of) the tax collectors and he gave instructions to the 
governors (or the provinces). He sent ‘Abd Allah b. al-‘ Abbas to Basra. He took 
charge of all the matters. 


When Mu‘awiya b. Abt Sufyan learnt of the death of the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, and the people’s pledge of allegiance to his son, al- 
Hasan, peace be on him, he sent a man of Himyar secretly to Ktfa and a man 
from Bant al-Qayn to Basra. They were to write reports to him to undermine 
affairs for al-Hasan, peace be on him. Al-Hasan, peace be on him, learned of 
that. He ordered the Himyari to be brought out from among (the tribe) of Lakhm 
in Kiifa. He had him brought out and executed. (Al-Hasan) wrote to al-Basra, 
ordering the Qayni to be brought out from among the Banti Sulaym. He was 
brought out and executed. 


Then al-Hasan, peace be on him, wrote to Mu‘awiya: 
You sent men to use deception and to carry out assassinations and you 
sent out spies as if you want to meet (in battle). That is something which 
will soon happen so wait for it, if Allah wills. I have learnt that you have 
become haughty in a way that no wise man would become haughty. In that 
you are just as al-Awwal described: 
Say to him who desires the contrary of the one who has died: 
Prepare for another like him as if (from the same) root. 


256 


I and the one among us who has died are like the one who goes in the 
evening so that (the other) may come in the morning. 


Mu‘awiya replied to him with his letter, which there is no need to mention. 
There followed between him and al-Hasan, peace be on him, correspondence, 
messages and disputes regarding the right of al-Hasan, peace be on him, to 
authority, and the unlawful seizure of power of those who came before his father, 
peace be on him, and of Mu‘awiya’s attempt to strip the cousin of the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, from his authority and of their (the 
House’s) right to it apart from them. (All these) matters would take too long to 
describe.’ 


Mu‘awiya set off towards Iraq. When he reached the bridge of Manbij, al-Hasan, 
peace be on him reacted. He sent Hujr b. ‘Adi to order the leaders (‘ummadl) to 
set out and to call the people together for war. 


They were slow to (answer) him and then they came forward. al-Hasan had a 
mixed band of men: some of them belonged to his Shi‘a and to his father’s; some 
of them were members of the Muhakkima (i.e. Kharijites) who were influenced 
by (the desire of) fighting Mu‘awiya with every means (possible); some of them 
were men who loved discords and were anxious for booty; some of them were 
doubters; others were tribal supporters who followed the leaders of their tribes 
without reference to religion.* 


He set off until he came to Hammam ‘Umar, then he went on to Dayr Ka‘b. 
He stopped at Sabat, just before the bridge and spent the night there. In the 
morning, He peace be on him, wanted to test his followers and make their 
situation clear with regard to obedience to him, so that in that way he might be 
able to distinguish his friends from his enemies and be in a clear mind (about his 
position) to meet Mu‘awiya and the Syrians.° He ordered the call to be made: 
“The prayer is a general one (which all should attend) (a/-salat jami‘a).” They 
gathered and he went up on the pulpit and addressed them. He said: “Praise 
belongs to Allah whenever a man praises Him. I testify that there is no God but 
Allah whenever a man testifies to Him. I testify that Muhammad is His servant 
and His apostle whom He sent with the truth and whom He entrusted with 
revelation, may Allah bless Him and His Family. By Allah, I hope that I shall 
always be with Allah’s praise and kindness. I am the sincerest of Allah’s 


3 A fuller version is given in Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 53-60. 

4 This paragraph is not in Maqatil al-Talibiyyin. It probably represents al-Mufid’s explanation of 
some reluctance shown by the Ktfans. cf. Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 61. 

5 This sentence appears to be al-Mufid’s explanation and is not in Maqatil al-Talibiyyin 


257 


creatures in giving advice to them. I have not become one who bears malice to 
any Muslim, nor one who wishes evil or misfortune for him. Indeed what you 
dislike about unity (jamd‘a) is better for you than what you like about division. 
I see what is better for you better than you see for yourselves. Therefore do not 
oppose my commands and do not reject my judgement. May Allah forgive both 
me and you and may He guide me and you to that in which there is love and 
satisfaction.” 


[He reported: ] 

The people began to look at one another and asked each other, “What do you 
think he intends by what he has just said?” 

“We think that he intends to make peace with Mu‘awiya and hand over the 
authority to him” they answered. 


“By Allah, the man has become an unbeliever,” they declared and they rushed 
towards his tent. They plundered him to the extent that they even took his prayer 
mat from under him. Then ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘al al-Azdi set 
on him and stripped his silk cloak from his shoulder. He remained sitting, still 
girt with his sword but without his cloak. He called for his horse and mounted it. 
Groups of his close associates and his Shi‘a surrounded him and kept those who 
wanted (to attack) him away from him. He said: “Summon (the tribes of) Rabi‘a 
and Hamdan to me.” 


They were summoned to him and they surrounded him and defended him, peace 
be on him, from the people. A mixed group of others went with him (as well). 
When he was passing through the narrow pass of Sabat, a man of Banu Asad 
called al-Jarrah b. Sinan caught hold of the reins of his mule. He had an axe in his 
hand. He cried: “Allah is greater (A//ahu akbar)! You have become a polytheist, 
Hasan, just like your father became a polytheist before.” 


Then he stabbed him in the thigh. It penetrated right through to the bone. He 
seized (al-Hasan) by the neck and they both fell to the ground. A man from 
al-Hasan’s Shi‘a called ‘Abd Allah b. Khatal al-Ta’I pulled the axe away from 
his hand and struck him with it in the stomach. Another man called Zubyan b. 
‘Umara attacked him, struck him upon the nose and killed him. Another man 
who had been with (al-Jarrah) was caught and killed. 


Al-Hasan, peace be on him, was carried on a stretcher to al-Mada’in where 
he was lodged with Sa‘d b. Mas‘td al-Thaqaft. The latter was the governor of 
(‘Alt), the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, there and al-Hasan had 
confirmed him in that position. 


258 


Al-Hasan, peace be on him, was distracted by his own (discomfort) and with 
treating his wound. (In the meantime) a group of the tribal leaders wrote secretly 
to Mu‘awiya offering to accept his authority (lit. to listen and obey). They urged 
him to come to them and they guaranteed to hand over al-Hasan, peace be on 
him, when they got to his camp, or to kill him treacherously. 


Al-Hasan, peace be on him, learnt of that when a letter came to him from Qays 
b. Sa‘d, may Allah be pleased with him. He had sent Qays with ‘Ubayd Allah 
b. ‘Abbas (to go on ahead) when he had set out from Kufa to meet Mu‘awiya 
and to drive him out of Iraq, and make himself a commander of a unified 
people (jama‘a). He had said to ‘Ubayd Allah: “If you are struck down, then the 
commander will be Qays b. Sa‘d.” 


Qays b. Sa‘d’s letter arrived informing him that they had stopped Mu‘awiya 
at a village called al-Habibiyya opposite Maskan. Then Mu‘awiya had sent to 
‘Ubayd Allah b. ‘Abbas, urging him to come to him and offering him a million 
dirhams, half of which he would give him immediately, and the other half on 
his entry into Ktfa. ‘Ubayd Allah had slipped away in the night with his close 
associates to (join) Mu‘awiya’s camp. In the morning the people found their 
leader missing. Qays b. Sa‘d, may Allah be pleased with him, said the prayer 
with them and took charge of their affairs.° 


Al-Hasan's awareness of the people’s desertion of him increased; (as did his 
awareness) of the corrupt intention of the Muhakkima (the Khariites) against 
him, which they made obvious by cursing him, accusing him of disbelief, and 
declaring that it was lawful to shed his blood and plunder his property. There 
remained no one to protect him from his unfortunate predicament except the 
close associates from his father’s Sht‘a and his own Shi‘a, and they were a group 
which could not resist the Syrian soldiers. 


Mu‘awiya wrote to him about a truce and peace treaty. He also sent him the 
letters of his followers in which they had guaranteed to kill him treacherously 
or to hand him over. He offered him as many conditions as he wanted, to 
answer his (call) for peace and he gave his (sworn) covenant by whose fulfilment 
everybody’s interests would be served. Al-Hasan, peace be on him, did not trust 
him. He was aware of his deception and his attempts at assassination. However 
he could find no escape from assenting to his demands to abandon the war and 
bring about a truce because of the weakness of his followers’ understanding 
of his right, their corrupt attitude towards him and their opposition to him. (In 
addition, he was aware) of the view of many of them in declaring it lawful to 


6 This summarises Magatil al-Talibiyyin, 64-5. The next section is omitted by al-Mufid. 


259 


shed his blood and to hand him over to his rival. (He also knew) of his cousin’s 
desertion (of him) and his joining his enemy, as well as the inclination of the 
people towards the immediate present and their reluctance (to show concern) for 
the future. 


Therefore he, peace be on him, bound himself (in a treaty) with Mu‘awiya as 
a result of the confirmation of the proof (of his situation) and with the excuses 
before Allah, the Most High, and all the Muslims, of what had taken place among 
them, He stipulated: 
That the cursing of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, 
should be abandoned and the practice of using the personal prayer (quniit) 
in the formal prayer (sa/at) (as prayer) against him should be set aside; 


That his Shi‘a, may Allah be pleased with them, should be given security 
and that none of them should be exposed to any evil; That each of them 
who had certain rights should attain those rights.’ 


Mu‘awiya accepted all that and made a treaty with him to observe that. He swore 
to him that he would fulfil it. When the truce had been concluded, Mu‘awiya 
went on until he reached al-Nukhayla. That was on a Friday; he prayed the mid- 
morning prayer (duha al-nahar) with the people, and he addressed them. In his 
address, he said: “By Allah, I have not fought against you to make you pray, 
nor to fast, nor to make the pilgrimage, nor to pay zakat. Indeed you do that 
(already). I fought so that I might have power over you and Allah has given that 
to me when you were reluctant to (obey) Him. Indeed I have been requested by 
al-Hasan, peace be on him, (to give him) things and I have given things to him. 
All of them are now under my foot. And from now on I will not fulfil anything.” 


Then he went on until he entered Kufa. He resided there for several days. When 
the pledge of allegiance by its inhabitants had to be carried out, he went up on the 
pulpit and addressed the people. He mentioned the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, and that he had taken from him and from al-Hasan, peace be on 
him, what he had taken. 


Al-Hasan and Al-Husayn, peace be on them, were present. al-Husayn, peace be 
on him, rose to reply but al-Hasan, peace be on him, took him by the hand and 
made him sit down. Then he himself, (al-Hasan) arose and spoke: “O you who 
mention ‘Alt, I am al-Hasan and ‘Ali was my father. You are Mu‘awiya and your 
father was Sakhr (Abi Sufyan). My mother was Fatima and your mother was 
Hind. My grandfather was the Apostle of Allah and your grandfather was Harb. 


7 The reasons for the treaty are not included in Magatil al-Talibiyyin and terms are slightly 
different. cf. Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 66-7. 


260 


My grandmother was Khadija and your grandmother was Futayla. May Allah 
curse him who tries to reduce our reputation and to diminish our nobility, who 
does evil against our antiquity and yet who has been ahead of us in unbelief and 
hypocrisy.” 


Groups of the people in the mosque shouted out: “Amen, Amen’”’® 


When the peace between al-Hasan, peace be on him, and Mu‘awiya was 
concluded in the way we have mentioned, al-Hasan, peace be on him, left for 
Medina. He resided there, restraining his anger, staying close to his house, 
and awaiting the command of his Lord, the Mighty and High, until Mu‘awiya 
had completed ten years of his administration. (Then) the latter decided to 
have the pledge of allegiance given to his son, Yazid, (as his successor). He 
communicated secretly With Ju‘da, daughter of al-Ash‘ath b. Qays - she was 
the wife of al-Hasan, peace be on him - to urge her to poison him. He gave an 
undertaking to her that he would marry her to his son, Yazid, and he sent her a 
hundred thousand dirhams. Ju‘da gave him the poison to drink but he lingered on 
sick for forty days. He passed along his (final) road in the month of Safar in the 
year 50 A. H. (670). At that time, he was forty-eight years of age. His succession 
(to the Imamate) had been for ten years. His brother and testamentary trustee 
(wasi), al-Husayn, peace be on him, undertook the washing and shrouding of his 
body, and buried him with his grandmother, Fatima, daughter of Asad b. Hashim 
b. ‘Abd Manaf, may Allah be pleased with her, in (the cemetery of) al-Baqi*. 


REPORTS OF THE CAUSE OF THE DEATH OF AL-HASAN, PEACE BE ON HIM, AND 
OF Mu‘AwIyA POISONING HIM, THE STORY OF HIS BURIAL AND THE ACTIONS 
AND STATEMENTS CONCERNING THAT. 


‘Isa b. Mihran reported: ‘Ubayd Allah b. al-Sabbah told us: Jarir told us on the 
authority of Mughira, who said:] 

Mu‘awiya sent to Ju‘da daughter of al-Ash‘ath b. Qays: “I will arrange for you 
to marry my son, Yazid, on condition that you poison al-Hasan.” 

He, also, sent her a hundred thousand dirhams. 


She did that: she poisoned al-Hasan, peace be on him. (Mu‘awiya) gave her the 
money but did not marry her to Yazid. Instead he gave her a man from the family 
of Talha as a substitute. The latter gave her children. Whenever any argument 
occurred between them and the clans of Quraysh, they would revile them saying: 
“Sons of a woman who poisons her husbands.” 


8 For the speeches cf. Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 68-70. 
9 Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 73. 


261 


[‘Isa b. Mihran reported: ‘Uthman b. ‘Umar told me: Ibn ‘Awn told us on the 
authority of ‘Umar b. Ishaq, who said:] 

I was with al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be on them, in the house. al-Hasan, 
peace be on him, came in from outside and then went out again. He said: “I have 
been given poison to drink several times but I have never been given poison like 
this. A bit of my liver has come out or my mouth and I began to turn it over with 
a stick J had.” 


“Who gave you the poison to drink,” al-Husayn, peace be on him, asked him, 
“and what do you want for him? Do you want him killed? If he may remain as 
he is, then Allah will be more terrible in His vengeance than you. If he may not 
remain as he is, then I should like to be free of any blame,” 


[‘Abd Allah b. Ibrahtm reported on the authority of Ziyad al-Makhariqi, who 
said:] 

When death was close to al-Hasan, peace be on him, he summoned al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, and said: “My brother. I am leaving you and joining my Lord. 
I have been given poison to drink and have spewed my liver into a basin. I 
am aware of the person who poisoned me and from where I have been made a 
subject to this deceitful action. I will oppose him before Allah, the Mighty and 
High. Therefore by the right I have with regard to you, say nothing about that 
and wait for what Allah, the Mighty and High, will decide concerning me. When 
I have died, shut my eyes, wash me and shroud me. Then carry me on my bier 
to the grave of my grandfather, the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, so that I may renew my covenant with him. After that take me to 
the grave of my grandmother, Fatima, daughter of Asad, may Allah be pleased 
with her, and bury me there. My brother, the people will think that you intend 
to bury me with the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. For 
that reason, they will gather to prevent you from doing it. I swear by Allah that 
you should not shed even your blood into the cupping-glass in (carrying out) my 
command.” 


Then he made his testamentary bequests to his family and his children. (He gave 
him) his heirlooms and the things which the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, had bequeathed to him when he had made him his successor, had 
declared him worthy to occupy his position, and had indicated to his Shi‘a that he 
was his successor, and set him up as their sign-post after himself. 


When he passed on his (final) journey, al-Husayn, peace be on him, washed and 
shrouded his (body). Then he carried him on his bier. Marwan and those of the 


10 Magqatil al-Talibiyyin, 74. 


262 


Bani Umayya who were with him had no doubt that they would try to bury him 
beside the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. They gathered 
together and armed themselves. When al-Husayn, peace be on him, approached 
the tomb of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, with 
(the body of al-Hasan) so that he might renew his covenant with him, they came 
towards them with their group. ‘A’isha had joined them on a mule and she was 
saying: “What is there between you and me that you should allow someone I 
don’t want to, to enter my house?” 


Marwan began to recite: 
O Lord, battle is better than ease. 


(Then he went on:) “Should ‘Uthman be buried in the outskirts of Medina and 
al-Hasan be buried alongside the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family? 
That will never be while I carry a sword.” 


Discord was about to occur between the Bani Umayya and the Bani Hashim. 
Ibn ‘Abbas hurried to Marwan and said to him: “Go back to where you came 
from, Marwan. Indeed we do not intend to bury our companion with the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. But we want him to be 
able to renew his covenant with him by visiting him. Then we will take him back 
to his grandmother, Fatima, and bury him alongside her according to his last 
instructions concerning that. If he had enjoined that he should be buried 
alongside the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, you know that you 
would be the least able to deter us from that. However, he, peace be on him, 
was much too aware of Allah and His Apostle and the sacredness of his tomb 
to bring bloodshed to it as others have done (who) have entered it without his 
permission.” 


Then he went to ‘A’isha and said to her: “What mischief you bring about, one 
day on a mule and one day on a camel! Do you want to extinguish the light of 
Allah and fight the friends (awliva’) of Allah? Go Back! You have been given 
assurance against what you fear and have learned what you wanted (to know). 
By Allah, victory will come to this House, even if it is after some time.” 


al-Husayn, peace be on him, said: “By Allah, if there had been no injunction to 
me from al-Hasan, peace be on him, to prevent bloodshed and that I should not 
even pour blood into a cupping-glass in (carrying out) his command, you would 
have known how the swords of Allah would have taken their toll from you. 
You have broken the agreement which was made between you and us. You have 
ignored the conditions which we made with him for ourselves.” 


263 


Then they went on with (the body of) al-Hasan, peace be on him, and they buried 
him in (the cemetery of) al-Baqi‘ beside his grandmother, Fatima daughter of 
Asad b. Hashim b. ‘Abd Manaf, may Allah be pleased with her. 


AN ACCOUNT OF THE NUMBER AND NAMES OF THE CHILDREN OF AL-HASAN 
B. ‘ALI, PEACE BE ON THEM, AND AN EXTRACT FROM THE REPORTS ABOUT 
THEM. 


Al-Hasan b. ‘Alt, Peace be on him, had fifteen children, both male and female: 
1. Zayd b. al-Hasan 
and his two sisters : 
2. Umm al-Hasan 
3. Umm al-Husayn 
Their mother was Umm Bashir daughter of Abi Mas‘tid ‘Ugqba ‘Amr b. Tha‘laba 
al-Khazraji 


4. Al-Hasan b. al-Hasan 
His mother was Khawla daughter of Manzir al-Fazart. 


5. ‘Umar b. al-Hasan 
and his two brothers 
6. Al-Qasim 
7. ‘Abd Allah 
Their mother was a slave-wife (umm walad). 


8. Abd al-Rahman b. al-Hasan 
His mother was a slave-wife (umm walad). 


9. Al-Husayn b al-Hasan, who was nicknamed the one with the broken tooth 
(al-athram) 
and his brother: 
10. Talha b. al-Hasan 
and their sister: 
11. Fatima daughter of al-Hasan 
Their mother was Umm Ishaq daughter of Talha b. ‘Ubayd Allah al-Taym1 


12. Umm ‘Abd Allah 
13. Fatima 

14. Umm Salama 

15. Ruqayya 


264 


These were daughters of al-Hasan, peace be on him, by various mothers. 
OK 2 2 


As for Zayd b. al-Hasan, peace be on him, he was in charge of the (proportion 
of) taxes (sadaqdat) given to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. He was the oldest (of the children) and was noble in worth, generous in 
character, unusual in spirit and great in piety. The poets praised him and people 
came to him from far and wide to seek his favour. 


The historians (ashab al-sira) related that Zayd b. al-Hasan was in charge of 
the (proportion of) taxes (sadaqat) given to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. However when Sulayman b. ‘Abd al-Malik came to 
authority, he wrote to his governor in Medina: 
When this letter of mine comes to you, dismiss Zayd from (control over) 
the taxes (sadaqat) of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, and give them to so-and-so son of so-and-so - he was a man from 
his (i.e. Sulayman’s) clan. Give him (all) the help he seeks from you. 
Greetings. 


However, when ‘Umar b. ‘Abd al-‘Aziz succeeded, (another) letter came from 
him: 
Zayd b. al-Hasan is the leader (sharif) of the Bani Hashim and the oldest 
of them. When this letter of mine comes to you, restore (control of) the 
taxes of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, to him. 
Give him (all) the help he seeks from you. Greetings. 


Concerning Zayd b. al-Hasan, Muhammad b. Bashir, the Kharijite, recited: 
When the son of the chosen one comes down the valley-stream, he drives 
away its drought and makes its sticks green with vegetation. 


Zayd is the spring of the people in every winter season when their rains 
and thunder have come. 


(He is) meek before those who seek the blood-price just as if he was a sun 
amid darkness as if its stars were joined to him. 


Zayd b. al-Hasan died when he was ninety years of age. A group of poets 
composed elegies for him, mentioning their loss of him and his outstanding 
merit. Among these elegies is that of Qudama b. Misa al-Jumaht who said: 
If the earth had been deprived of Zayd’s person, kindness and goodness 
would have been absent from it. 


265 


If the guarantee of the dust of the grave has come upon him, then he has 
been covered by it while he, the departed, was praised for his action. 


The One Who listens to a humble request knows that he only seeks good 
from Him and so He will return (good to him). 


He was not loquacious but he undertook his journeying to search for good 
wherever you wanted (it). 


If a lowly servant was remiss, he would urge him on to praise his fathers 
and grandfathers. 


(He was one of the) generous givers to servants and (one of) those 
who sides with kinsmen, (one of the) lions in endurance in the face of 
misfortunes. 


When a mighty one with many ancestors is removed, they have a praise- 
worthy inheritor to succeed as would be desired. 


When a lord from among them dies, another noble lord arises who builds 
and fortifies them after him. 


(Further) examples of this would make the book too long. 


Zayd b. al-Hasan, may Allah have mercy on him, departed from this world 
without claiming the Imamate, nor do anyone of the Shi‘a or anyone else make 
the claim for it on his behalf. The fact is that the Shi‘a are of two types - Imam1 
and Zaydi. The Imami bases the Imamate on nominations (nusis) and these do 
not exist for the sons of al-Hasan, peace be on him, with their agreement: not 
one of them claimed that for himself while there was any doubt with regard to 
it. The Zaydi regards the Imamate, after ‘Ali, al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace 
be on them, as belonging (to the one who makes) a claim for it and (embarks 
on) war (jihad). However, Zayd b. al-Hasan, may Allah have mercy on him, 
submitted to the Bani Umayya and accepted the actions performed by them. His 
attitude was (that of) precautionary dissimulation (tagiyva) towards his enemies 
and reconciliation and blandishment towards them. According to the Zaydi 
movement, this is contrary to the signs of the Imamate as we have explained. 


The Hashwiyya adhere to the Imamate of the Bani Umayya and do not 


consider the Imamate as belonging to the children of the Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, in any circumstance. The Mu‘tazila only 


266 


consider the Imamate as belonging to those who hold their view of withdrawal 
(i ‘tizal) and those whose agreement (‘ahd) is made through a consultative body 
(shura) and election (ikhriyar). As we have mentioned before, Zayd was far from 
(conforming to) these conditions. The Kharijites do not consider the Imamate 
of anyone whom the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, appointed 


whereas Zayd followed both his father and his grandfather without any dispute. 
28 2K OK KE 


Al-Hasan b. al-Hasan, peace be on him, was noble, a leader, a man of merit 
and piety. He was in charge of the (proportion of) taxes (sadaqdt) give to the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, while he (al-Hasan) was alive, 
until al-Hajjaj b. Yasuf, as they report. 


[Al-Zubayr b. Bakkar has reported: ] 

Al-Hasan b. al-Hasan was in charge of the (proportion of) taxes (sadaqat) of the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, while he was alive. One day al- 
Hajjaj b. Yusuf came in a procession - at that time he was governor of Medina. 
Al-Hajjaj said to him: “Bring ‘Umar b. ‘Ali into (association) with you in the 
sadaqat of your father. He is your uncle and a survivor of your family.” 


“T will not change the conditions laid down on me,” al-Hasan told him, “nor will 
I bring anyone else into (association) in it, who need not be brought in.” 


“Then I will bring him into association with you,” retorted al-Hajjaj. 


However, al-Hasan b. al-Hasan withdrew it from him when al-Hajjaj was 
distracted (with other matters). Then he went to ‘Abd al-Malik. He came to him 
and stood at his door seeking permission (to enter). Yahya b. (Umm) al-Hakam 
passed him. When Yahya saw him, he turned towards him, greeted him and asked 
him about his reason for coming. (Al-Hasan) told him. 

“T will try to favour you with the Commander of the faithful,” Yahya said - he 
was referring to ‘Abd al-Malik. 


When al-Hasan b. al-Hasan went in to ‘Abd al-Malik, the latter welcomed him 
and questioned him kindly. Al-Hasan’s hair had grown white quickly. Yahya b. 
(Umm) al-Hakam was in the gathering. 

“Your hair has grown white quickly, Abu Muhammad,” ‘Abd al-Malik said to 
(al-Hasan) 

“The whitenes of his half would not prevent him from carrying out the desires of 
the Iraqis, Commander of the faithful.” said Yahya, “should their riders come to 
him to inspire him with desire for the caliphate.” 


267 


Al-Hasan b. al-Hasan went to him and said: “Shame on you! By Allah, the gift 
that I ask for is not as you have said. But we, the members of the House, grow 
white (in our hair) quickly.” 


‘Abd al-Malik had been listening. He came towards him and asked: “Come on, 
why have you come?” 
(Al-Hasan) told him about what al-Hajjaj had said. 


“He has no right to do that,” (‘Abd al-Malik) said. “I will write to him a letter 
which he will not ignore.” 


He wrote to him and gave gifts to al-Hasan b. al-Hasan and treated him 
generously. When he left him, Yahya b. (Umm) al-Hakam met him. Al-Hasan 
reproached him for his bad testimony. He said to him: “What was it that you 
promised me?” 

“Stop that,” retorted Yahya. “He still fears you. If I had not made him fear you, 
he would not have carried out your request and thus was I able to help you.” 


Al-Hasan b. al-Hasan had been present with his uncle, al-Husayn. peace be on 
him, at the battle on the banks (of the Euphrates). When al-Husayn, peace be 
on him, was killed and the rest of his family had been taken prisoner, Asma’ b. 
Kharija had come to him and taken him from among prisoners. She had said: “By 
Allah, don’t ever let him go to Ibn Khawla.” 

“Let him go to Abi Hassan, the son of his sister” said ‘Umar b. Sa‘d. 


It was said that he was captured when he had received a wound from which he 
was (later) cured. 


It is reported that al-Hasan b. al-Hasan sought to become engaged to one of two 
of the daughters of his uncle, al-Husayn, peace be on him. 

“Choose, my son,” al-Husayn, peace be on him, told him, “the one of them which 
is preferable to you.” 


Al-Hasan became shy and could not make a choice in answer. So al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, said: “I have chosen my daughter, Fatima, for you. Of the two, 
she is the most like my mother, Fatima, daughter of the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family.” 


Al-Hasan b. al-Hasan died when he was thirty-five years of age, may Allah 
have mercy on him. His brother, Zayd b. al-Hasan was still alive but he 


appointed his brother on his mother’s side, Ibrahim b. Muhammad b. Talha, as 


268 


his trustee. When al-Hasan b. al-Hasan, may Allah be pleased with him, died, his 
wife, Fatima, daughter of al-Husayn b. ‘Alj, peace be on them, pitched a tent at 
his tomb and she used to stand in prayer at night and fast during the day. She was 
like a houri of heaven in her beauty. At the beginning of the new year, she said to 
her retainers: “When the night becomes dark, pull down the tent. “ 


Then when the night became dark, she heard a voice saying: “Have they found 
what they had lost?” She answered: “Nay, they have despaired so they have 
reversed things.” 


Al-Hasan b. al-Hasan passed away without making any claim for the Imamate. 
Nor was any claim for it made on his behalf, just as we have described in the case 
of his brother, Zayd, may Allah be pleased with him. 


28 2K 2K KR 


As for ‘Umar, al-Qasim and ‘Abd Allah, sons of al-Hasan b. ‘Ali, peace be on 
them, they died as martyrs in front of their uncle, al-Husayn b. ‘Alt, peace be 
on them, on the banks (of the Euphrates) - may Allah be pleased with them and 
grant them satisfaction and reward their bravery on behalf of religion and Islam 
and His family. 


‘Abd al-Rahman b. al-Hasan went on a pilgrimage with his uncle, al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, and he died at al-Abwa’ while still in a pilgrim state (muhrim), 


may Allah have mercy on him. 


Al-Husayn b. al-Hasan, known as ‘the one with the broken tooth’ (a/-athram) 
had great merit but there was no other record of him with regard to that. 


Talha b. al-Hasan was an excellent man. 
2k ok 2 2k ok 


269

[[p 28]]
CHAPTER II 


IMAM AL-HUSAYN B. ‘ALT 


(This is) an account of the Imam after al-Hasan b. ‘Alt, peace be on him, (giving) 
the date of his birth, the evidence of his Imamate, the age he reached, the period 
of his succession (khilafa), the time and cause of his death, the place of his grave, 
the number of his children. (It also provides) a selection from the (historical) 
reports about him. 


The Imam after al-Hasan b. ‘Ali was his brother, al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, (who was) 
the son of Fatima, daughter of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, through the designation (nass) of his father and grandfather, peace be on 
them, and the testamentary bequest (wasiyya) of his brother, al-Hasan, peace be 
on him. His kunya was Abi ‘Abd Allah. 


He was born in Medina, on the fifth of Sha‘ban in the year 4 A.H. (626). His 
mother, Fatima, peace be on her, brought him to the Apostle of Allah. The 
latter was delighted with him and named him Husayn. He sacrificed a ram on his 
behalf in the rite of ‘agiga. On the testament of the Apostle of Allah, he and his 
brother are the two lords of the youth of Heaven, and by unanimous agreement, 
they were the grandsons of the Prophet of Mercy. 


Al-Hasan b. ‘Alt, peace be on them, was like the Prophet, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, from his head to his chest, while al-Husayn was like him from 
his chest to his feet. They were the two dear ones of the Apostle of Allah among 
all his family and children. 


[Zadhan reported on the authority of Salman, may Allah be pleased with 
him:] 

I heard the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, say 
concerming al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be on them: “O Allah, I love both 
of them. Therefore love them and love whoever loves them:” Then he said: 
“Whoever loves al-Hasan and al-Husayn, is one whom I love. Whomever I love, 
Allah loves, and whomever Allah loves, He will cause to enter Heaven. Whoever 
hates them, I hate and Allah hates. Whomever Allah hates, He will cause to enter 
the Fire.” Then he said: “These two sons of mine are my two plants of sweet basil 
(to sweeten) the world.” 


[Zirr b. Hubaysh reported on the authority of Ibn Mas‘td:] 


270 


While the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was praying, al-Hasan 
and al-Husayn came and stood behind him. When he raised his head, he took 
them tenderly (into his arms). When he resumed (his prayers), they resumed 
(theirs). Then when he had finished, he sat one on his right knee and the other on 
his left knee and said: “Whoever loves me, should love these two. They, peace 
be on them, are the two proofs (hujjatay Allah) of Allah of His Prophet in the 
contest of prayer (mubahala). After their father, the Commander of the Faithful, 
they are the two proofs of Allah (hujjatay Allah) to the community concerning 
religion (din) and belief (milla).” 


[Muhammad b. ‘Umayr has reported on the authority of his teachers (rija/) that 
Abu ‘Abd Allah (i.e. Imam Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be on him, said:]' 

Al-Hasan, peace be on him, said to his companions: “Allah has two cities - one in 
the east and the other in the west - in which Allah’s creatures are never interested 
in disobeying Him. Yet, by Allah, Allah’s proof to His creatures, both in those 
two and between them, is no other than myself and my brother, al-Husayn.” 


A narration of the same kind is reported from al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, peace be on 
them, when he said to the followers of Ibn Ziyad on the day of deprivation: 
“What is the matter with you that makes you help each other against me? Or 
(don’t you see) if you kill me, you kill Allah’s proof to yourselves? No, by Allah, 
there is not between Jabilqa and Jabirsa a son of a prophet through whom Allah 
provides proof to you other than myself.” He meant by Jabilqa and Jabirsa, the 
two cities which al-Hasan, peace be on him, had mentioned. 


One of the conclusive pieces of evidence (burhdn) of the perfection of both of 
them, peace be on them, and the proof of Allah’s special regard for them both, 
after what we have mentioned of the contest of prayer of the Prophet, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, (in which he used) them both, is the pledge (bay ‘a) 
which the Apostle of Allah made, to them, when he never made any (other) 
pledge to a child. The Qur’an also brings down the positive statement of the 
reward of Heaven to them both because of their works, despite the outward 
state of childhood in which they were. It did not bring down that to any other 
like them. Allah said in Sarat Hal Gta (Insan) (known also as Surat al-Dahr) 
(LXXVI 8-12): And they give food out of love for Him to the poor and the orphan 
and the captive. We only feed you for Allah’s sake; we desire from you neither 
reward nor thanks. Surely we fear from our Lord a stern, distressful day. 
Therefore Allah will guard them from the evil of that day and cause them to 
meet with ease and happiness. And reward them, because they were patient, with 


1 Al-Kafi (Tehran, 1388A.H.) 1,462, tradition no.5. Al-Kulayni’s isndd has been shortened as has 
the tradition. 


271 


garden and silk. This statement is general to them, peace be on them, with their 
father and their mother. The tradition contains their assertion of that and their 
awareness of it; both of which indicate that the illustrious verse was about the 
two of them and (that) the greatest proof (Aujja) to creatures was through them 
both. In the same way the report about the Messiah, peace be on him, speaking 
in the cradle was a proof of his prophethood and Allah’s special regard for him 
through miraculous acts (karama) which indicated his place and position with 
Allah with regard to merit (fad/). 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, had made clear 
his Imamate and the Imamate of his brother before him through designation 


(nass) when he said: “These two sons of mine are Imams who will experience 
difficulties.” 


The testamentary bequest (wasiyya) of al-Hasan, peace be on him, to him 
indicated his Imamate, just as the testamentary bequest of the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, to al-Hasan, peace be on him, indicated his Imamate 
just as the testamentary bequest of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, to the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, indicated 
his Imamate after himself. 


According to what we have (just) mentioned the Imamate of al-Husayn, peace 
be on him, was confirmed after the death of his brother al-Hasan, peace be on 
him, and the obedience of all creatures to him was binding, although he did not 
summon them to (follow) him because of precautionary dissimulation (tagiyya) 
which he was following and because of the truce which existed between him and 
Mu‘awiya b. Abt Sufyan and the need to fulfil it. In that he followed the same 
course as his father the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, in terms 
of the establishment of his Imamate after the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, despite (his own) silence (about it), and also of the Imamate of his 
brother after the truce despite (his) abstention (from politics) and (his) silence. In 
that they were acting according to the practices (sunan) of the Prophet of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, when he was blockaded in al-Shi‘b and 
when he escaped Mecca as an emigrant by hiding in a cave and he was hidden 


from his enemies. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


When Mu‘awiya died, the period of the truce came to an end. (It was this) which 
had prevented al-Husayn, peace be on him, from calling (people) to (follow) 
him. Then he made public his (claim to) authority as far as was possible. Time 
after time he explained his right (to authority) to those who were ignorant of it 


272 


until followers gathered around him. Then he, peace be on him, urged (them) to 
take up the struggle (jihad) and prepared for battle. 


Then with his children and the people of his house (afl baytihi), he set out from 
the sanctuary of Allah (Mecca) and the sanctuary his Apostle (Medina) towards 
Iraq because of the help that was sought from him by the members of his Shi‘a 
who had urged him (to come) against the enemies. His paternal cousin, Muslim 
b. ‘Aqil, may Allah be pleased with him, had preceded him and had satisfied him 
of the (sincerity of their) call to Allah and of (their) pledge of allegiance to him 
to take part in the struggle. For the people of Kufa had pledged their allegiance 
to him (Muslim) to (do) that, and had promised (to do) it and had guaranteed help 
and advice to him and had given their trust and contract to him. However it was 
not long before they broke their pledge, deserted him and handed him over. Then 
he was killed in their midst without them (trying) to stop it. (Furthermore) they 
went out to (make) war against al-Husayn. They besieged him, peace be on him, 
prevented him from returning to Allah’s land (i.e. Mecca) and they used force 
against him in such a way that he could find no one to help him, and no place of 
refuge from them. They prevented him from getting water from the Euphrates 
so that they might gain power over him. Then they killed him. He, peace be on 
him, died, (a man desperately) thirsty, yet still striving and showing fortitude, (a 
man) forced to be detained, (a man) oppressed. The pledge of allegiance to him 
was revoked. The respect due to him was ignored. The covenant to him was not 
fulfilled nor the responsibility of the agreement made with him honoured. (He 
died) a martyr as his father and brother, peace be on them, had done before him. 


THE ACCOUNT OF THE MARTYRDOM OF AL-HUSAYN 


(This is) a selection of the reports which give the reason for his (putting forward) 
his call (to follow him), and (which tell) of the pledge of allegiance which the 
people gave to strive (for him), with a brief account of his affair in setting out 
and (of) his death. 


[What al-Kalbt, al-Mada’int and other historians (ashab al-sira) have reported: ]* 
When al-Hasan, peace be on him, died, the Shi‘a in Iraq began to make plans. 
They wrote to al-Husayn, peace be on him, about removing Mu‘awiya and 
giving the pledge of allegiance to him. However, he refused them and pointed 
out that there was an agreement and contract between himself and Mu‘awiya 
which he could not break until the period (of the contract) came to an end. 
2 In fact the account follows Ibn al-Kalbt’s account as reported by al-Tabari, II, 216-381. Al-Tabart 

uses three versions, but al-Mufid follows the version of Ibn al-Kalbt, only once adopting another 


reading. In places al-Kalbi’s version is summarised by al-Mufid, parts of it are omitted, but by 
and large al-Mufid faithfully follows that version. 


273 


However, when Mu‘awiya died, he would examine that (matter).? 


When Mu‘awiya did die - and that was halfway through the month of Rajab in 
the year 60 A.H. (680) - Yazid wrote to al-Walid b. ‘Utba b. Abi Sufyan, who 
was in Medina (acting) on behalf of Mu‘awiya, instructing him to get al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, to pledge allegiance to him and to allow him no delay in 
(doing) that. Therefore, al-Walid sent in the night to al-Husayn, peace be on him, 
and summoned him (to attend). Al-Husayn, peace be on him, was aware of what 
he wanted and so he called a group of his retainers (mawali) and ordered them 
to carry arms. 


“Al-Walid has summoned me (to come to him) at this time (of night),” he told 
them. “I cannot be sure that he might not burden me with a matter I may be 
unwilling to respond to, he is an unpredictable man, so remain with me. When 
I go to him, sit at the door. If you hear my voice raised, come in to prevent him 
from (doing anything to) me.” 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, went to al-Walid, and Marwan b. al-Hakam was 
with him. Al-Walid gave him news of the death Mu‘awiya and al-Husayn, peace 
be on him, replied with the formula: “We belong to Allah and to Him we will 
return.” Then (al-Walid) read out Yazid’s letter and his order to get the pledge of 
allegiance from him. 


“I do not see that my pledge of allegiance to Yazid in private would be 
sufficient,” al-Husayn, peace be on him, said. “(Wouldn’t you prefer me) to give 
it in public so that the people are aware?” 

“Indeed,” agreed al-Walid. 


“So see what you think about that in the morning,” suggested al-Husayn, peace 
be on him. 

“Go, then, in the name of Allah but come to us when the people gather,” said 
al-Walid 


“By Allah,” interrupted Marwan, “if al-Husayn leaves you now without giving 
the pledge of allegiance, you will never have the same power over him until 
there is a great number of slain men between you and him. Imprison the man and 
don't let him leave you until he has paid homage (to Yazid), or you have executed 
him.” 

At that, al-Husayn jumped up and said: “O son of foreign woman, would you 


3 This explanation is, rather surprisingly, not included in al-Tabari’s version, for such letters 
cf. al-Baladhuri, Ansab al-Ashraf, Il, 151-2 


274 


or he kill me? By Allah, you are a liar.” With that he went out and walked away 
accompanied by his retainers until he reached his house. 


“You disobeyed me,” Marwan told al-Walid. “No, by Allah, he will never give 
you the same opportunity over his life.” 

“Then blame someone other than yourself, Marwan.” replied al-Waltid. “Indeed, 
You had chosen for me something which would have involved the destrucion of 
my own faith. By Allah, I would not want all the worldly wealth and dominion 
which the sun rises and sets over, (if it involved) killing al-Husayn. Glory be to 
Allah, should I kill al-Husayn because he said ‘I will not swear allegiance’? By 
Allah, I do not think that on the Day of Resurrection a man who is (responsible) 
for the blood of al-Husayn (will weigh) little in the scales of Allah.” 


“Tf this is your opinion, then you have acted correctly in what you did,” said 
Marwan, without commending him for his view. 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, spent that night at his house. It was the night of 
Saturday (i.e. Friday night) when there were three days left in the month of 
Rajab, in the year of 680. Al-Walid b. ‘Utba was occupied with sending to Ibn 
al-Zubayr about the pledge of allegiance to Yazid, and with his refusal (to come) 
to them. Ibn al-Zubayr left Medina at night heading for Mecca. In the morning 
al-Walid sent men after him - he sent (a party of) eighty horsemen under the 
command of a retainer (maw/a) of the Bant Umayya. They pursued him but did 
not catch up with him, so they returned. 


Towards the end of Saturday he sent men to al-Husayn, peace be on him, to bring 
him to pledge allegiance to al-Walid on behalf of Yazid b. Mu‘awiya. Al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, said to them: “Come in the morning. Then you will (have time 
to) consider (the situation) and so shall we.” 


They left him that night without insisting upon him (attending). He, peace be on 
him, left under (cover of the) night, - it was the night of Sunday (i.e. Saturday 
night) with two days left in the month of Rajab - and he headed towards Mecca 
accompanied by his sons, his brother’s (al-Hasan’s) sons and his brothers. There 
was most of the House except for Muhammad b. al-Hanafiyya, may Allah have 
mercy on him. 


When the latter had heard of his decision to leave Medina he did not know 
where he was intending to go. He said: “My brother, you are the most lovable of 
people to me and the dearest of them to me. I could not give advice to any 
creature except to you while you are more entitled to it. Avoid giving your pledge 


275 


of allegiance to Yazid b. Mu‘awiya and (avoid) the towns while you can. Then 
send your messengers to the people and summon them to (follow) you. If the 
people pledge allegiance to you, I praise Allah; if the people agree upon someone 
other than you, Allah will not make your religion nor your reason deficient on 
that account, nor will He remove your manliness and outstanding merit because 
of it. Yet I am afraid that you will enter one of these towns and the people will 
differ with each other: a group will be for you and another against you. They 
will fight and you will be a target for the first of their spears. Then, the best of all 
this community, in person, in father and in mother would be the one in it, whose 
blood was most terribly exposed and whose family most humiliated,” 


“Where should I go, brother?” asked al-Husayn, peace be on him. 

“(Go and) stay at Mecca,” he answered, “if that base is secure for you, it will be a 
means for (gaining power). However, if it becomes dangerous for you, then you 
can take to the deserts and the mountain peaks, and move from place to place 
so that you may see how the people’s attitude to the affair develops. Your best 
judgement will be made when you are facing matters directly.” 


“Brother,” replied (al-Husayn), “you have given advice and shown your concern. 
I hope that your judgement is correct and successful.” 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, set of for Mecca reciting: Then he left it out of fear 
while he kept on the lookout. He said: My Lord, save me from the unjust people 
(XXVIII 21). He kept to the high road and members of his House suggested: “If 
you had avoided the high road, like Ibn al-Zubayr did, the search (party) could 
not follow you.” 

“No, by Allah,” he replied, “I will not leave it until Allah judges what He will 
judge.” 


When al-Husayn, peace be on him, entered Mecca, his entry occurred on the 
night of Friday (i.e. Thursday), 3rd (of the month) of Sha‘ban. As he entered, he 
recited: And when he set our towards Madyan, he said: Perhaps my Lord will 
guide me in the right path (XXVIII 22). 


Then he stayed there and its inhabitants began to visit him frequently, as did 
those who had to come to make the lesser pilgrimage and (other) people from far 
and wide. Ibn al-Zubayr had settled himself there, near the Ka‘ba, where he used 
to stand in prayer and perform the circumambulation (tawdf). He came to visit 
him, peace be on him, with the (others) who came to visit him. He used to come 
to him at intervals of two consecutive days, and sometimes between the two-day 
intervals. He (al-Husayn ) was the most troublesome of Allah’s creatures to Ibn 


276 


al-Zubayr, who realised that the people of Hijaz would not pledge allegiance 
to him as long as al-Husayn, peace be on him, was in the land. He was more 
capable of (commanding) the people’s obedience than him, and was more 


respected. 
ok 2 2 2K 


The Kifans learnt of the death of Mu‘awiya, may the pit of Hell be for him, and 
spread rumours about Yazid. They (also) came to know of the news of the refusal 
of al-Husayn, peace be on him, to give (Yazid) the pledge of allegiance, (as well 
as) what the attitude of Ibn al-Zubayr had been, and (how) both of them had 
left for Mecca. The Shi‘a in Ktifa gathered in the house of Sulayman b. Surad 
al-Khuza‘t. (There) they discussed the death of Mu‘awiya, and praised and 
glorified Allah (for that). 


“Mu‘awiya is dead.” announced Sulayman b. Surad. “Al-Husayn has withheld 
giving his pledge of allegiance to the people (i.e. the Umayyads) and has gone to 
Mecca. You are his Shi‘a and the Shi‘a of his father. If you know (in your hearts) 
that you will be his helpers and fighters against his enemy, and that our lives will 
be given on behalf of him, then write to him and tell him of that. But if you fear 
failure and weakness, do not tempt the man (to risk) his own life.” 


“No,” they declared, “indeed we will fight his enemy and our lives will be given 
on behalf of him.” 
“Then write to him,” he told them. They wrote to him: 

In the Name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate, 

To al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, peace be on them, 


From Sulayman b. Surad, al-Musayyib b. Najaba, Rifa‘a b. Shaddad al- 
Bajali, Habib b. Muzahir, and the believers and Muslims of his Shi‘a 
among the Kiifans. 


Greetings, we praise Allah before you, other than Whom there is no deity. 
Praise be to Allah Who has broken your enemy, the obstinate tyrant who 
had leapt upon this community, stripped it of its authority, plundered its 
fay’ (booty for distribution) and seized control of it without its consent. 
Then he had killed the choice members of it and had preserved the wicked 
members of it. He had made the property of Allah a state (divided) among 
its tyrants and wealthy. He was destroyed as Thamiid were destroyed. 
(Now) there is no Imam over us. Therefore come; through you, may 
your Allah unite us under truth. Al-Nu‘man b. Bashir is in the governor’s 
palace and we do not gather with him for the Friday (service). Nor do we 


277 


accompany him (out of the mosque) for the festival service. If we learn 
that you will come to us, we will drive him away until we pursue him to 
Syria, 1f Allah, the Exalted, wills. 


They despatched the letter with ‘Abd Allah b. Musma‘* al-Hamdant and ‘Abd 
Allah b. Walin. They ordered them to go quickly. They hurried off and came to 
al-Husayn, peace be on him, at Mecca on the 10th of the month of Ramadan. 
Two days after sending them with the letter, they sent Qays b. Mushir al-Saydawi 
and ‘Abd Allah and ‘Abd al-Rahmaan - the two sons of Shaddad al-Arhab?° - 
and ‘Umara b. ‘Abd Allah al-Salilt® to al-Husayn, peace be on him. With them 
they took about one hundred and fifty letters,’ (some written) by one man 
individually, (others by groups) of two and four. They (the Kufans) delayed a 
further two days and then sent Hani’ b. Hani’ al-Sabi‘T and Sa‘1d b. ‘Abd Allah 
al-Hanafi (with another letter in which) they had written: 

In the Name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate, 

To al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, peace be on them, 

From the believers and Muslims of his Shi‘a. Make haste. The people 

are waiting for you. They have no opinion (of any man) except you. 

Therefore, speed, speed! And then again speed, speed! 

Greetings. 


Shabath b. Rib‘l, Hajjar b. Abjar, Yazid b. al-Harith b. Ruwaym, ‘Urwa b. 
Qays,* ‘Amr b. al-Hajjaj al-Zubaydt and Muhammad b. ‘Amr al-Taym?’ wrote (a 
further letter which said): 

The dates have grown green; the fruit has ripened. Therefore if you want 

to, come to an army which has been gathered for you. 

Greetings. 


When all the messengers gathered together with him, he read the letters and 
asked the messengers about the people. (Then) he wrote (an answer and sent it) 
with Hani’ b. Hani’ al-Sabi‘T and Sa‘id b. ‘Abd Allah al-Hanafi, who were the 
last two messengers. 

In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate, 


From al-Husayn b ‘Ali, 
To the leaders of the believers and the Muslims. 
4 Sabu‘ in al-Tabari, II, 234. 
5 The two sons are one in al-Tabari, II, 234. 
6 ‘Ubayd in al-Tabari, II, 234. 
7 Thirty-five in al-Tabari, IH, 234. 
8 ‘Azra in al-Tabari, II, 234. 
9 Muhammad b. ‘Umayr al-Tamimt in al-Tabart, II, 234. 


278 


Hani’ and Sa‘id have brought me your letters; they are the last two of your 
messengers who have come to me. I have understood everything which 
you have described and mentioned. The (main) statement of your great 
men is: “There is no Imam over us. Therefore come; through you, may 
Allah unite us under truth and guidance.” I am sending you my brother, 
Muslim b. ‘Aqil, who is my cousin and my trustworthy (representative) 
from my House. If he writes to me that the opinion of your leaders and 
of the men of wisdom and merit among you is united in the same way as 
the messengers who have come to me have described and as I have read 
in your letters, I will come to you speedily, Allah willing. For by my life, 
what is the Imam except one who judges by the Book, one who upholds 
justice, one who professes the religion of truth, and one who dedicates 
himself to the essence of Allah. 

Greetings. 


Al-Husayn, peace be upon him, summoned Muslim b. ‘Aqil and despatched him 
with Qays b. Mushir al-Saydawi and ‘Umara b. ‘Abd Allah al-Salali, and ‘Abd 
Allah and ‘Abd al-Rahman, the sons of Shaddad al-Arhabi. He enjoined him to 
be pious before Allah and to conceal his affair, and to act in a kindly way. If he 
saw that the people were united and had committed themselves to an agreement, 
he should speedily inform him of that. 


Muslim, the mercy of Allah be on him, departed until he came to Medina. There 
he prayed in the Mosque of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, and said farewell to the dearest members of his family. Then he hired 
two guides. These two set out with him, but they missed the way and got lost. 
Both were struck by severe thirst and were unable to continue the Journey. They 
indicated the path to him after it again appeared clear to them. Muslim carried on 
along the path and the two guides died of thirst. Muslim b. ‘Aqil, the mercy of 
Allah be on them both, wrote (a letter) from the place known as al-Madiq (and 
sent it) with Qays b. Mushir: 
I set out from Medina with two guides and they missed the way and got 
lost. Both were overcome by thirst and soon died. But we kept going until 
we came to water. we were only saved at the last moment of our lives. That 
water is in a place called al-Madiq in a low valley. I have taken this as a 
bad omen for my mission. If you consider it so, you could relieve me and 
send another in my place. 
Greetings. 


Al-Husayn, peace be upon him, wrote (back): 
I am afraid that your urging me in the letter to relieve you from the task 


279 


which I sent you on is only cowardice. Therefore go on with your task 
which I gave you. 
Greetings. 


Muslim read the letter, he said: “It is not for myself that I am afraid.” So he 
continued (once more) until he came to a well belonging to (the tribe of) Tayyi’. 
He stayed there (the night) then as he rode off (he saw) a man hunting. He saw 
him shoot a fawn as it came into his sight, and kill it. Muslim said: “(Thus), will 
we kill our enemies, Allah Willing.” 


He went on until he entered Ktifa. There he stayed in the house of al-Mukhtar 
b. Abi ‘Ubayda. which is called today the house of Muslim b. al-Musayyib. The 
Shi‘a began to come regularly to (see) him . Whenever a group of them gathered 
together with him, he would read the letter of al-Husayn, peace be upon him, and 
they would weep. The people pledged allegiance to him (on behalf of al-Husayn) 
to the extent that eighteen thousand men made such a pledge to him. Therefore 
Muslim wrote to al-Husayn, peace be upon him, informing him of the pledge of 
allegiance to him of the eighteen thousand and urging him to come. 


The Shi‘a began to visit Muslim b. ‘Aqil so frequently that his place (of 
residence) became well-known. Al-Nu‘man b. Bashir, who had been Mu‘awiya’s 
governor of Kufa and had been confirmed in office by Yazid, knew of his 
whereabouts. He went up on the pulpit and after praising Allah said: “Servants of 
Allah, fear Allah and do not rush into rebellion and discord. For in that men will 
be destroyed, blood will be shed, and property will be plundered. I do not combat 
anyone who does not combat me, nor do I disturb those of you who remain quiet. 
I do not oppose you, nor do I apprehend (you merely) on grounds of suspicion, 
accusation or hearsay. However, if you turn your faces away from me, violate 
your pledge of allegiance and oppose your Imam, by Allah, other than Whom 
there is no deity, I will strike you with my sword as long as its hilt remains in 
my hand, even though I do not have any of you to help me. Yet I hope that those 
among you who know the truth are more numerous than those whom falsehood 
will destroy.” 


‘Abd Allah b. Muslim b. Rabr‘a'® al-Hadrami, an ally of the Bani Umayya stood 
before him and said: “O governor, what you see can only be adequately dealt 
with by violence; for the view which you hold about what (should be done) 
between you and your enemy is that of the weak,” 

“T would prefer to be one of the weak (while remaining) in obedience to Allah 
than to be one of the mighty (while at the same time being) in rebellion against 


10 Ibn Sa‘1d in al-Tabari, II, 238. 


280 


Allah,” answered al-Nu‘man. Then he went down (from the pulpit). 


‘Abd Allah b. Muslim went out and wrote the (following) letter to Yazid b. 
Mu‘awiya: 
Muslim b. ‘Aqil has come to Kufa and Shi‘a have pledged allegiance to 
him on behalf of al-Husayn b. ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on them. If you 
have any need for Kiifa, then send it a strong man, who will carry out 
your orders and act in the same way as you would against your enemy. Al- 
Nu‘man b. Bashir is a weak man, or he is acting like a weak man. 


‘Umara b. ‘Uqba wrote to him in a similar vein, as did ‘Umar b. Sa‘d b. Abt 
Waqqas. When the letters reached Yazid, he summoned Sarjiin, a retainer 
(mawla) of Mu‘awiya and asked (him): “What is your view (of the fact) that 
Husayn has sent Muslim b. ‘Aqil to Kufa to receive pledges of homage on his 
behalf? I have (also) learnt that Nu‘man is weak, and had other bad reports of 
him. Who do you think that I should appoint as governor of Kifa?” 


Now Yazid was angry with ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad so Sarjiin answered him, 
“Do you think if Mu‘awiya was alive and advising you, that you would take his 
advice?” 

“Yes,” he answered. 


Sarjtin produced a (letter of) appointment for ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad (as 
governor) of Kifa and said: “This is the advice of Mu‘awiya, which he ordered 
before he died. So join the two cities of Basra and Ktfa (under the authority) of 
“‘Ubayd Allah.” 


“Tl do that,” replied Yazid. “Ill send the letter of authority (which my father 
wrote) for ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad to him.” 


After this he summoned Muslim b. ‘Amr al-Bahilt and he sent him to ‘Ubayd 
Allah with the following (letter): 
My Shi‘a among the people of Kifa have informed me that Ibn ‘Aqil 
is there gathering units in order to spread rebellion among the Muslims. 
Therefore, when you read this letter of mine, go to Ktfa and search for Ibn 
‘Aqil as if you were looking for a bead until you find him. Then bind him 
(in chains), kill him or expel him. 
Greetings. 


In this way he gave him authority over Kufa. Muslim b. ‘Amr went to ‘Ubayd 
Allah at Basra and brought him the authorisation and the letter. ‘Ubayd Allah 


281 


ordered that preparations should be made immediately and that the departure for 
Kufa would take place on the next day. He himself left Basra after he had made 
his brother, ‘Uthman, his deputy. He took with him Muslim b. ‘Amr, Shartk b. 
al-A‘war al-Harithi, together with his entourage and household. 


When he reached Ktfa, he was wearing a black turban and he was veiled. News 
of al-Husayn’s departure had reached the people and they were expecting his 
arrival. When they saw ‘Ubayd Allah, they thought that he was al-Husayn. He 
(i.e. ‘Ubayd Allah) did not pass a group of people without them greeting him. 
They were saying: “Welcome, son of the Apostle of Allah, your arrival is a happy 
(event).” 


He saw in their welcoming of al-Husayn something which (greatly) troubled 
him. Muslim b. ‘Amr said, when their number had become so great (that) they 
were delaying them: “This is the governor ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad.” 


He went on so that he was approaching the (governor’s) palace at night. With 
him was (still) a great crowd who had gathered round him and who did not doubt 
that he was al-Husayn. Al-Nu‘man b. Bashir had (the palace) bolted against him 
and against his entourage. One of those with him called on him to open the door 
to them. But al-Nu‘man, still thinking that be was al-Husayn, went up to the 
balcony and called down: “I invoke Allah before you, unless you withdraw (from 
me), by Allah, I will not hand over my office (amana) to you but I have no wish 
to fight you.” 


(Ibn Ziyad) did not answer him. But he went closer while al-Nu‘man was 
hanging over the balcony of the palace. Then he began to say to him: “Open, you 
have not opened yet and you have already had a long night (in which you have 
slept instead of governing).”!! 


A man behind him heard this and withdrew to the people from Ktfa who had 
followed (Ibn Ziyad) (believing) him to be al-Husayn. He said: “O people, it is 
Ibn Murjana,'* by Him other than Whom there is no deity.” Al-Nu‘man opened 
the door for him and he entered. They slammed the door in the faces of the 
people and they dispersed. 


In the morning the call was made among the people: “4A/-salat jami‘a (the prayer 


11 Al-Mufid omits Ibn al-Kalbr’s account of ‘Ubayd Allah’s entry into Kifa as given by al-Tabari, 
II, 242, and gives ‘Umar b. Shabba’s cf. al-Tabari, II, 243. This suggests that al-Mufid got his 
version of Ibn al-Kalbt from al-Tabart. 

12 Reference to Ibn Ziyad by his mother’s name. 


282 


is a general prayer which all should gather for).” The people gathered and he 
went out to them. He praised and glorified Allah and said. “The Commander 
of the faithful (Yazid) has appointed me to be in charge of your town and your 
frontier-station and the distribution of your booty (fay’). He has ordered me to 
give justice to the oppressed among you, to be generous to those of you who are 
deprived, and to treat the obedient among you with generosity like a good father, 
but to use the whip and the sword against those who abandon my commands and 
oppose my appointment. Let each man protect himself. True belief (sidq) should 
declare itself on your behalf, not the threat of punishment (wa ‘d).” 


Then he went down, he took the group leaders (‘arifs) and (some of) the people 
forcibly and he said: “Write to me about the strangers, those among you who 
supported the Commander of the Faithful (i.e. ‘Ali b. Abi Talib), those among 
you who support the Hartriyya (i.e. Kharijites), and the trouble-makers whose 
concern is discord and turmoil. Whosoever of you makes these lists for us will 
be free from harm. But those of you who do not write anyone, will have to 
guarantee that there is no opponent in his group (‘irafa) who will oppose us, 
and no wrongdoer who will try to wrong us. Anyone who does not do so, will 
be denied protection and his blood and his property will be permitted to us. Any 
group leader (‘arif) in whose group is found anyone with partisanship for the 
Commander of the Faithful, who has not been reported to us, will be crucified at 
the door of his house, and I will abolish the pay (‘ata’) of that group (‘irafa).” 


When Muslim b. ‘Aqil heard of the coming of ‘Ubayd Allah to Kutfa, of the 
speech he had made and his treatment of the ‘arvifs and (other) people, he left the 
house of al-Mukhtar and went to the house of Hani’ b. ‘Urwa and went in (to 
stay) there. The Shi‘a began to visit Hani’s house secretly to keep it hidden from 
‘Ubayd Allah and they enjoined that it should be kept secret. 


Ibn Ziyad summoned a retainer (mawla) of his called Ma‘qil. “Take three 
thousand dirhams,” he told him, “cand look for Muslim b. ‘Aqil and search out 
his followers. If you get hold of one or a group of them, give them these three 
thousand dirhams. Tell them to use it to help in the war against your enemy. 
Let them know that you are one of them. For if you give it to them, they will 
be sure of you and have confidence in you, and they will not keep any of their 
information from you. So go (looking) for them and continue until you find 
where Muslim b. ‘Aqil is staying and you have met him.” 


He did that. He came (to a place where) he sat near Muslim b. ‘Awsaja al-Asadi 
in the great mosque. The latter was praying, and he (Ma‘qil) heard some people 


saying that this (was one of those who) had pledged allegiance to al-Husayn. He 


283 


went up and sat right next to him until he had finished praying. 


“O servant of Allah,” he said, “I am a Syrian whom Allah has blessed with love 
for the House and love for those who love them.” 


He pretended to weep (in front of) him. Then he continued: “I have three 
thousand dirhams with which I want to meet a man from them (the House) whom 
I have learnt has come to Ktfa to receive pledges of allegiance on behalf of 
the son of the daughter of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. I have been wanting to meet him but I have not found anyone who will 
direct me to him and I don’t know the place (where he is staying). While I was 
sitting (here), I heard a group of the faithful saying that this is a man (1.e. Muslim 
b. ‘Awsaja) who is acquainted with this House. Therefore I have come to you so 
that you may take this money from me and introduce me to your leader (sa@hib); 
for I am one of your brethren and someone you can trust. If you wish, you may 
receive my pledge of allegiance to him before my meeting him.” 


“T thank Allah for you meeting me,” replied (Muslim) b. ‘Awsaja, “and it gives 
me great joy to get (you) what you desire, and that Allah should help the House 
of His Prophet, peace be on them, through you. Yet the people’s knowledge of 
my (connection) with this affair before it is finished troubles me, because of (my) 
fear of this tyrant and his severity.” 


“It would be better (if) you took the pledge of allegiance from me (now),” Ma‘qil 
told him. So he took his pledge of allegiance and testaments heavily supported 
by oaths that he would be sincere and keep the matter concealed. He (Ma‘qil) 
gave him whatever would make him content in that way. 


“Come to visit me at my house for (a few) days,” said (Muslim b. ‘Awsaja). “for 
I will seek permission for you (to visit) your master.” 


He began to go to visit him frequently with the people (i.e. the other members 
of the Shi‘a) and sought permission for him (to visit). Permission was given 
and Muslim b. ‘Aqil received (Ma‘qil’s) pledge of allegiance. He told Abu 
Thumama al-Sa’idi to take the money from him. The latter was the one who 
collected money from them and what could be used to help each other, and he 
used to buy their arms. He was a perceptive man and one of the knights (faris) of 
the Arabs and one of the notables of the Shi‘a. 


That man (i.e. Ma‘qil) began to visit them regularly. He was the first to enter and 
the last to leave, in order to become acquainted with (everything of) their affairs 


284 


which Ibn Ziyad wanted. He used to keep him informed about that at regular 
intervals. 


Hant’ b. ‘Urwa began to fear for himself and he stopped attending Ibn Ziyad’s 
assembly (majlis). He pretended to be sick. Ibn Ziyad asked those who did 
attend, “Why is it I don’t see Hant’?” 

“He is sick.” they replied. 


“If I had been informed of his illness, I would have paid him a sick visit,” said 
Ibn Ziyad. Then he summoned Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath, Asma’ b. Kharija and 
‘Amr b. al-Hajjaj al-Zubaydi. Ruwayha,'? daughter of ‘Amr was married to Hani’ 
b. ‘Urwa; she was the mother of Yahya b. Hant’. 

“What prevents Hani’ from coming to visit us?” he asked them. 

“We don’t know,” they replied, “but it is said that he is sick” 


“T have learnt,” replied (Ibn Ziyad), “that he is better and that he sits at the door 
of his house. Go and tell him that he should not abandon his duty towards us. For 
I do not like one of the Arab nobles like him to ill-treat me,” 


They went until they stood before his (house) in the evening. He was sitting at 
his door. 

“What is stopping you from seeing the governor?” they asked. “For he has 
mentioned you and said that if he had been told you were ill, he would have paid 
you a Sick-visit.” 

“An illness has stopped me,” he answered. 


“He has been informed.” they said. “that you sit at the door of your house 
every evening. He finds you tardy and tardiness and churlish behaviour are 
things which the authorities will not tolerate. We adjure you to ride with us.” 


He called for his clothes and got dressed. Then he called for a mule and rode 
(with them). When he got near the palace, he began to feel some apprehension. 
He said to Hassan b. Asma’ b. Kharija, 

“Nephew, by Allah, I fear this man. What do you think?” 

“Uncle, by Allah, I do not fear anything for you. Why do you invent a reason (for 
blame) against yourself?” he answered, for Hassan did not know why ‘Ubayd 
Allah had sent for him. (So) Han? went on until he came to ‘Ubayd Allah b. 
Ziyad. With him was a group (of people). 


When he looked up, ‘Ubayd Allah said (to himself): “The fool’s legs have 
13 Rua in al-Tabart, II, 250. 


285 


brought him to you.” Then, when Hani’ had drawn near Ibn Ziyad, who had the 
qadi Shurayh, with him, Ibn Ziyad turned towards him and recited: 
I want is friendship but he wants my death. 
The one who makes excuses to you is one of your own bosom friends from 
the tribe of Murad."4 


He was referring to his earlier kindness and gentleness to him (Hani’). 

“What is that, governor?” asked Hant’. 

“Yes, Hani’, what are these matters which you have been plotting in your 
house against the Commander of the faithful and the general community of the 
Muslims?” asked Ibn Ziyad. “You have brought Muslim b. ‘Aqil and taken him 
into your house. You have gathered arms and men for him in houses around you. 
You thought that was hidden from me.” 


“T have not done that and Muslim is not with me,” he replied. 
“Oh yes (you have),” was the answer. 


After the argument between them had gone on for some time and Hanv’ persisted 
in contradicting and denying (the accusations), Ibn Ziyad summoned that spy, 
Ma‘qil. He came and stood before him. 

“Do you know this man?” (Ibn Ziyad) asked him. 

“Yes,” he replied. 


At that (moment) Hani’ realised that he had been a spy against them and had 
brought (Ibn Ziyad) all their information. For a moment he was bewildered, and 
then his spirit returned to him. 

“Listen to me,” he said. “and believe what I say. I swear by Allah that I do not 
lie. By Allah, I did not summon him to my house. I did not know anything about 
his business until he came to me asking to stay with me. I was too ashamed to 
refuse him. As a result of that, the duty of giving (him) protection fell upon me. 
Therefore I gave him lodging and refuge. Then his affair developed as you have 
been informed. If you wish, I will give you strongly sworn testaments that I will 
not do you any harm and danger. And I will come to you and put my hand in 
your hand. If you wish, I will give you a guarantee which will be in your hand 
until I return to you. Then I will go to him and order him to leave my house for 
wherever in the land he wants to go. Then he will leave his right of protection.” 


“You will never leave me unless you bring him,” answered Ibn Ziyad. 
“No, by Allah. I will not bring him to you,” (the other) declared. 


14 This verse is also supposed to have been recited by ‘Alt concerning Ibn Muljam. 


286 


After the argument between them had gone on for some time, Muslim b. ‘Amr 
al-Bahill rose (to speak). There was no other Syrian or Basran in Kufa except 
him. 


“May Allah make you prosper, governor,” he interjected. “(please) leave me with 
him (for a time) so that I can speak to him.” He arose and took him (Hant’) aside 
from Ibn Ziyad. They were (standing) where he could see them and when they 
raised their voices, he could hear what they were saying. 


“T adjure you before Allah, Hant’,” said Muslim, “you are killing yourself and 
bringing tribulation on your clan. By Allah, I hold you too precious to be killed. 
This man is the cousin of (your) tribe so they will not fight against him, nor 
harm him. Therefore give him (i.e. Muslim b. ‘Aqil) to them (the authorities). 
There will be no shame and failure for you by that for you would only be handing 
him over to the authorities.” 


“By Allah, indeed there would be shame and disgrace for me,” answered Hani’, 
“were I to hand over one who has come under my protection and is my guest, 
while I am still alive and sound. I can hear; I see well; I have a strong arm and 
many helpers. By Allah, if I was the only one without any helper, I would not 
hand him over until I had died on his behalf.” 


He began to shout at him saying: “By Allah, I will never hand him over to him.” 


Ibn Ziyad heard that. “Bring him to me,” he said. They brought him. “Either 
bring him to me or I will have your head cut off,” demanded Ibn Ziyad. 

“Then there will be much flashing (of swords) around your house,” replied Hant’, 
thinking that his clan would prevent him (from being killed). 


“Come near me,” demanded (Ibn Ziyad). He came nearer and Ibn Ziyad struck 
his face with his cane and went on beating at his nose, forehead and cheeks so 
that he broke his nose and the blood flowed from it on to his face and beard and 
the flesh of his forehead and cheeks was sprinkled over his beard. Eventually the 
cane broke. Hani’ stretched out his hand towards the hill of the sword of one of 
the armed attendants but the man pulled it away and prevented him. 


“You have been behaving like one of the Hariri (i.e. Kharijites) all day long!” 
yelled Ibn Ziyad, “so your blood is permitted to us. Take him away!” 


They took him and threw him into one of the rooms in the building. They 
locked the doors on him. He had told them to put guards on him and that (also) 


was done. However Hassan b. Asma’ arose and said: “Are (we) messengers of 


287 


treachery now? For you told us to bring the man to you. Yet when we brought 
him to you, you smashed his nose and face, and his blood flowed on his beard. 
Then you claimed that you would kill him.” 


“You will be for it here (and now),” cried ‘Ubayd Allah and he ordered him to be 
struck, shaken and pushed aside. 

“We are satisfied with the governor’s attitude on our behalf and against (those 
of) us (who are wrong): the governor is only punishing (those who are wrong),” 
declared Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath. 


However when it was reported to ‘Amr b al-Hajjaj and he learnt that Hant’ 
had been killed, he advanced with Madhhij and surrounded the palace. He had a 
great crowd with him. 

“T am ‘Amr b. al-Hajjaj” he called out “and these are the knights of Madhhij, 
and their leading men. We have not broken away from obedience, nor have we 
separated from the community.” 


It had been reported to them that their colleague had been killed and they 
regarded that as a great crime. ‘Ubayd Allah was told that Madhhij were at the 
gate. He told the gadi Shurayh: “Go in to their colleague, look at him and then go 
out and inform them that he is still alive and has not been killed.” 


Shurayh went in and looked at him. When Hani’ saw Shurayh he said, with 
blood flowing down his beard: “Oh Allah! Oh you Muslims! Has my clan been 
destroyed? Where are the people of religion? Where are the people of the town?” 
When he heard the tumult at the door of the palace he said: “I think those are 
the voices of Madhhij and my group of the Muslims. If ten of them got in, they 
would be able to rescue me.” 


After Shurayh had listened to what he had to say, he went out to them and 
told them: “When the governor learnt about your attitude and your statements 
concerming your colleague, he ordered me to go and see him. I went and I saw 
him. Then he ordered me to meet you and inform you that he is still alive and that 
the report that he had been killed was false.” 


“Praise be to Allah since he has not been killed,” answered ‘Amr b. al-Hajjaj and 
his colleagues. Then they went away, 


‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad went out and went up on the pulpit. (He had brought) 


with him the nobles of the people, his bodyguard (shuraf) and his entourage. 
He said “O people, seek refuge in obedience to Allah and your Imams. Do not 


288 


cause division, for you will be destroyed, humiliated, killed or harshly treated 
and deprived. Your brother is he who speaks the truth to you. He who warns is 
excused.” 


After he had finished, he was about to go down but had not gone from the 
pulpit, when the look-outs at the date-sellers’ gate of the mosque rushed in 
yelling; “Muslim b. ‘Aqil has come!” 


‘Ubayd Allah quickly went into the palace and locked the gates. 


[‘Abd Allah b. Hazim reported: ] 

By Allah, I was Ibn ‘Aqil’s messenger at the palace to see what was done to 
Hant’. When he was beaten and imprisoned I mounted my horse and was the 
first to enter the house to bring information of him to Muslim b. ‘Aqil. There the 
women of Murad had gathered and they were crying out; “O tears of grief for 
him! O bereavement of him!” 


I went in to see Muslim and gave him the news of him (Hant’). He ordered me 
to summon his supporters. The houses around him were full of them; there were 
four thousand men there. He told his messengers to cry out: “O victorious, kill!” 
so I cried out; “O victorious, kill”. Then the Ktfans gathered and assembled 
before him. Muslim, may Allah have mercy on him, appointed leaders over the 
quarters, over the tribes of Kinda, Madhhij, Tamim, Asad, Mudar and Hamdan. 
The people had answered the call and gathered, except for a few who had 
delayed so that the mosque and the market place were full of people. They were 
full of enthusiasm until the evening. ‘Ubayd Allah’s situation was grim. All his 
energy was concentrated on holding the door, for he only had thirty members 
of his bodyguard with him in the palace, twenty nobles of the people, and his 
family and entourage. The nobles who had not been with him began to come to 
him through the door which adjoined the building of the Romans. Then those of 
the nobles who were with Ibn Ziyad began to look down on them (the people 
outside). (These) were looking at them, while they hurled stones at them and 
cursed them and abused ‘Ubayd Allah and his father. Ibn Ziyad summoned 
Kathir b. Shihab and ordered him to go out among those of Madhhij who obeyed 
him and to go round Kufa and make the people desert Ibn ‘Aqil; he should make 
them afraid of (the possibility of) war and threaten them with the punishment of 
the authorities. Then he ordered Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath to go out among those 
of Kinda and Hadramawt who obeyed him; he should raise a standard which 
would guarantee security to those people who came to him. He gave similar 
instructions to al-Qa‘qa‘ al-Dhuhlt, Shabath b. Rib‘T al-Tamimi, Hajjar b. Abjar 
al-‘Ijlt and Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan al-‘Amiri. He kept the rest of the nobles 


289 


of the people with him, not wishing to be without them because of the small 
number of people who were with him. Kathir b. Shihab went out (and began) 
making the people desert Muslim. Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath went out until 
he reached the houses of the Bani ‘Umara. Ibn ‘Aqil sent ‘Abd al-Rahman 
b. Shurayh al-Shibami to Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath from the mosque. When 
Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath saw the great number of those who had come to 
him (Muslim), he lingered where he was (i.e. he did not carry out Ibn Ziyad’s 
instructions). Then he - Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath - Kathir b. Shihab, al-Qa‘qa‘ 
al-Dhuhli and Shabath b. Rib‘T began to make the people withdraw from their 
close adherence to Muslim for they made them afraid of the authorities so that 
a great number of their tribesmen and others gathered to them and they went to 
Ibn Ziyad through the house of the Romans. The tribesmen went in with them. 


“May Allah make the governor prosperous,” said Kathir b. Shihab, “you have 
many of the nobles of the people with you, (as well as) your bodyguard, family 
and servants. Let us go out against them.” 


‘Ubayd Allah refused but he gave Shabath b. Rib‘ a standard and he sent him 
out. The people with Ibn ‘Aqil remained numerous until evening. 


Their situation became strong. ‘Ubayd Allah sent for the nobles and he 
assembled them. They (went up to the roof to) look down on the people. They 
offered additional (money) and kind treatment to those who would obey and they 
terrified the disobedient with (threats of) dispossession and (dire) punishment. 
They told them that the army from Syria was coming against them. Kathir b. 
Shihab spoke until the sun was about to set. He said: “O people, stay with your 
families. Do not hurry into evil actions. Do not expose yourselves to death. These 
are the soldiers of the Commander of the faithful Yazid, who are approaching. 
The governor has given Allah a promise that if you persist in fighting him and 
do not go away by nightfall, he will deprive your children of their (right to a) 
state allotment of money (‘ata’) and he will scatter your solders in Syrian 
campaigns. He will make the healthy among you responsible for the sick and 
those present responsible for those who are absent until none of those rebellious 
people will remain who has not tasted the evil consequences of what their hands 
have earned.” 


The (other) nobles spoke in a similar vein. After the people had heard what they 
had to say, they began to disperse. Women began to come to their sons and 
brothers (saying): “Go, the people will be enough (without) you”. Men were 
going to their sons and brothers and saying: “Tomorrow the Syrians will come 
against you. What are you doing causing war and evil? Come away.” Thus (a 


290 


man) would be taken away or would leave. They continued to disperse so that by 
the time evening came and Muslim b. ‘Aqil prayed the evening prayer, he had 
only thirty men with him in the mosque. When he saw that it was evening and 
he only had that group with him, he left the mosque and headed for the gates of 
Kinda. He reached the gates with only ten of them (left) with him. When he left 
the gate, there was no one with him to guide him. He looked around but could 
see no one to guide him along the road, to show him to his house and to give him 
personal support if an enemy appeared before him. 


He wandered amid the lanes of Ktfa without knowing where he was going until 
he came to the houses or the Banti Jabala of Kinda. He went on until he came to 
a door (at which was) a woman called Taw‘a. She had been a slave-wife (umm 
walad) of al-Ash‘ath b. Qays and he had freed her. She had, then, married Usayd 
al-Hadrami and had borne him (a son called) Bilal. Bilal had gone out with the 
people and his mother was standing al the door waiting for him. 


Ibn ‘Aqil greeted her and she returned the greeting. 
“Servant of Allah, give me water to drink,” he asked her. She gave him a drink 
and he sat down. She took the vessel inside and then came out again. 


“Servant of Allah, haven’t you had your drink?” she asked. 
“Yes,” was the answer 


“Then go to your people,” she said. But he was silent. She repeated it but he was 
still silent. A third time she said: “Glory be to Allah, servant of Allah. get up - 
may Allah give you health - (and go) to your people. For it is not right for you to 
sit at my door and I will not permit you to do it.” 


(At this) he got up and said: “Servant of Allah, I have neither house nor clan in 
this town. Would you (show) me some generosity and kindness? Perhaps I will 
be able to repay it later on.” 


“What is it, Servant of Allah?” she asked. 
“T am Muslim b ‘Aqil’” he replied. “These people have lied to me, incited me (to 
action) and then abandoned me.” 


“You are Muslim,” she repeated. 
“Yes,” he answered. 


“Come in,” she said and he was taken into a room in her house but not the room 
she used. She spread out a carpet for him and offered him supper but he could 
not eat. 


291 


Soon her son returned. He saw her going frequently to and fro between the rooms 
and exclaimed: “By Allah, the number of times which you have gone into and 
come out of that room this evening, makes me suspect that you have something 
important (there).” 


“My young son, forget about this,” she answered. 
“By Allah, tell me,” he replied. 


“Get on with your own business and don’t ask me about anything,” she retorted. 
However he persisted until she said: “My young son, don’t tell any of the people 
anything about what I am going to tell you.” 


“Indeed.” he answered and she made him take an oath. When he swore (not to 
do) that, she told him. He went to bed without saying anything. 


After the people had deserted Muslim b. ‘Aqil, a long time passed for Ibn Ziyad 
without him hearing the voices of the supporters of Ibn ‘Aqil as he had heard 
them before. He told his followers to look down at them and see whether they 
could see any of them. They looked down and did not see anyone. Then he 
told them to see whether they were in the shadow and were lying in ambush 
for them. They removed the (bamboo) roof covers of the mosque and began 
to lower the torches of fire in their hands, and to look. Sometimes the torches 
gave light for them and sometimes they did not give (as much) light for them as 
they would have wished. They let down the torches and sticks of cane tied with 
rope on which was fire. They were let down until they reached the ground. They 
did this in (place in which was) the deepest darkness, (as well as) those parts 
which were closer and those which were in between. They (also) did that in the 
darkness around the pulpit. When they saw that there was nothing, they informed 
Ibn Ziyad that the people had dispersed. Then he opened the gateway which 
(went) into the mosque. He came out and went up on the pulpit. His followers 
had come out with him. He told them to sit for a little while before the night 
prayer. He ordered ‘Amr b. Nafi‘ to call out that there would be no guarantees 
of security for any man of the bodyguard, the ‘arifs, the supporters and the 
fighters who prayed the night prayer (anywhere) except in thc mosque. Not an 
hour passed before the mosque was full of people. After ordering his caller (to 
call for prayer), he rose for the prayer. His guard rose behind him but he told 
them to guard him against anyone coming in (to try) to assassinate him. After 
praying with the people, he went up on the pulpit. When he had praised and 
glorified Allah, he said. “Ibn ‘Aqil, stupid and ignorant (man as he is) has 
attempted the opposition and rebellion which you have seen. There will be no 
security from Allah for a man in whose house we find him. Whoever brings him, 


292 


will have the reward for his blood. Fear Allah, you servants of Allah, and keep 
to obedience and your pledge of allegiance. Do not do (anything which will 
be) against yourselves. Husayn b. Numayr, your mother will lose you, if any 
of the gates of the lanes of Kifa is open or this man gets away. And you do not 
bring him to me. I give you authority over the houses of the inhabitants of Ktfa. 
Send lookouts (to inspect) people on the roads. Tomorrow morning clear out (the 
people from) the houses and search them thoroughly so that you bring me this 


” 


man. 


Al-Husayn b. Numayr was in charge of the bodyguard and was of the Bani 
Tamim. After this Ibn Ziyad went back into the palace. He gave ‘Amr b. Hurayth 
his standard and put him in charge of the people. In the morning he held an 
assembly and gave permission for the people to come to him. Muhammad b. al- 
Ash‘ath approached. 


“Welcome to one of those whose loyalty is above suspicion,” he said to him and 
sat him by his side. 


That same morning the son of that old woman went to ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 
Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath and told him about Muslim b. ‘Aqil being with his 
mother. ‘Abd al-Rahman went to his father who was with Ibn Ziyad. He went to 
him and Ibn Ziyad learned his secret. 

“Get up and bring him to me immediately,” said Ibn Ziyad to (Muhammad b. al- 
Ash‘ath), poking a cane into his side. He sent (‘Amr b.)'* ‘Ubayd Allah b. ‘Abbas 
al-Sulami with him, together with seventy men from the tribal group of Qays. 


They went to the house where Muslim b. ‘Aqil was. When the latter heard the 
beating of horses’ hooves and the voices of men, he knew that it was him whom 
they had come for. He went out against them with his sword (drawn) as they 
tushed blindly towards the house. He fell upon them and struck them with his 
sword so that he drove them away from the house. They repeated the attack, and 
Muslim counter-attacked in the same way. He and Bakr b. Humran al-Ahmari 
exchanged blows and Bakr struck Muslim’s mouth, cutting his top lip and slicing 
down to the lower lip to knock out two of his teeth. Muslim struck him a terrible 
blow on the head and repeated it again, cutting a nerve along his shoulder with a 
blow which almost reached his stomach. When the people saw that, they (went 
up and) looked down on him (Muslim) from the tops of the houses, and began to 
hurl stones at him and to light canes of wood with fire which they threw from the 
top of the house. When he saw that, he went out against them into the lane with 
his sword unsheathed. 


15 ‘Amr supplied from al-Tabart, II, 263. 


293 


“You can have my guarantee of security,” said Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath. “don't 
kill yourself.” 


But he continued to fight against them saying: 
I swear I will only be killed as a free man, although I see death as 
something horrible, 


Or it makes the cold a bitter heat and deflects the ray of the sun (for ever). 


Every man one day will meet an evil, I fear that I will be cheated and 
deluded. 


“You will not be cheated, deluded or deceived,” replied Muhammad b. al- 
Ash‘ath. “These people (ie. the Bani Umayya) are your cousins and they will 
not fight against you or strike you.” 


He had been hurt by stones and weakened by the fighting. He was out of breath 
and he was propping his back up against the wall of that house. Ibn al-Ash‘ath 
repeated the offer of security to him. 

“Am I granted security?” he said. 

“Yes,” he replied and he said to the people who were with him, “he is given 
security by me.” 


“Yes,” replied the people, except (“Amr b.) ‘Ubayd Allah b. al-‘ Abbas al-Sulamt. 
“T have neither she-camel or camel in this (i.e. I will have nothing to do with it),” 
he said and he turned aside. 


“Tf you will not grant me security,” declared Muslim, “I will not put my hand in 
yours.” 


A mule was brought and he was put on it. They gathered around him and pulled 
his sword away. At that he was in despair for his life and his eyes filled with tears. 
“This is the first betrayal,” he cried. 

“T hope no harm will come to you,” called out Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath. 


“Is it only hope?” he retorted as he wept. “Where then is your guarantee of 
security? Indeed We belong to Allah and to Him we will return.” 

“One who has sought for the like of what you have sought for, should not weep 
when there befalls him what has befallen you,” ‘Amr b. ‘Ubayd Allah b. al- 
“Abbas goaded him. 


294 


“IT would not weep for myself,” he replied, “nor would I grieve for my own death, 
even though I have not the slightest desire for destruction. But I am weeping for 
my family who are coming to me, I am weeping for al-Husayn and the family of 
al-Husayn, peace be on them.” 


Then he went closer to Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath and said: “O servant of Allah, 
by Allah, I see that you are unable to grant me a guarantee of security. Yet do 
you have the goodness to be able to send one of your men with my message 
so that it will get to al-Husayn? For I have no doubt that he has already set out 
towards you, or will be setting out soon with his House. (This messenger) would 
say: ‘Ibn ‘Aqil has sent me to you. He is a prisoner in the hands of the people, 
and he does not expect to see evening before he is killed; and he says: Return, 
may my father and mother be your ransom, with your House and do not let the 
Kufans tempt you, for they were the followers of your father and he desired to 
leave them even through death and murder. The Kiifans have lied to you. A liar 


299 


has no judgement’. 


“By Allah, I will do that,” replied Ibn al-Ash‘ath, “and I will inform Ibn Ziyad 
that I have given you a guarantee of security.” 


Ibn al-Ash‘ath went with Ibn ‘Aqil to the door of the palace. He asked 
permission to enter. Permission was given him and he went in (to see) Ibn Ziyad. 
He gave a report about Ibn ‘Aqil and Bakr’s blow against him, and about his own 
guarantee of security to him. 


“What (is this about) you and a guarantee of security?” demanded ‘Ubayd Allah, 
“as if we sent you to guarantee him security when we only sent you to bring 
him.” 

Ibn al-Ash‘ath fell silent. 


While Ibn ‘Aqil remained at the palace door, his thirst had become severe. At 
the palace door there were people sitting waiting for permission to enter. Among 
them were ‘Umara b. ‘Uqba b. Abi Mu‘ayt, ‘Amr b. Hurayth, Muslim b. ‘Amr 
and Kathir b. Shihab. There was a jug of cold water placed at the doorway. 
“Give me a drink of that water:' asked Muslim 

“See how cold it is.” replied Muslim b. ‘Amr. “but by Allah you will never taste 
a drop of it until you taste the heat of Hell-fire” 

“Shame on you whoever you are!” cried Ibn ‘Aqil. 

“T am the one who recognized the truth when you denied it; who was sincere to 
his Imam when you deceived him; who was obedient to him when you opposed 
him. I am Muslim b. ‘Amr al-Bahilt” 


295 


“Your mother has been bereft of a son” replied Ibn ‘Aqil. “How coarse you are, 
how rough, how hard your heart is. Man of Bahila, you are more appropriate for 
the heat of Hell-fire and to remain there forever, than I am.” 


He sat down, propping himself against a wall. ‘Amr b. Hurayth sent one of his 
boys to bring a jug with a napkin and cup. He poured water into it and told him 
to drink. But whenever he went to drink, the cup filled with blood so that he was 
not able to drink. He did that once and then twice. When he made as if to drink 
for the third time, his tooth fell into the cup, 

“Praise be to Allah.” he said, “if it had been a provision granted to me (by Allah), 
I could have drunk it “ 


Ibn Ziyad’s messenger came out and ordered him to go to (see) him. He went in 
but did not greet him as governor. 

“Don’t you greet the governor?” demanded the guard. 

“Tf he wants my death, what is (the point of) my greeting him with words of 
peace?” he replied. “if he did not want my death, my greetings (of peace) to him 
would be profuse.” 


“By my life, you will be killed,” declared Ibn Ziyad. 
“So be it,” he replied. 


“Indeed, (it will).” 
“Then let me make my will to one of my fellow tribesmen” 
“Do (so).” 


Muslim looked those sitting with ‘Ubayd Allah. Among them was ‘Umar b. Sa‘d 
b. Abi Waqaqas. He said to him “ ‘Umar, there is kinship between you and me and 
I have need of you. So you could carry out what I need of you. But it is secret.” 

‘Umar refused to listen to him. 

“Why do you refuse to consider the need of your cousin?” asked ‘Ubayd Allah. 


So ‘Umar got up with him and sat where Ibn Ziyad could watch both of them. 
“T have a debt in Kiifa,” said Muslim. “I borrowed seven hundred dirhams when 
I came to Kufa. Sell my sword and armour and pay the debt for me. When I have 
been killed, ask Ibn Ziyad to give you my corpse and bury it. Send to al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, someone to send him back. For I have written to him telling 
him that the people are with him and now I can only think that he is coming,” 


“Do you know what he said to me, governor?” ‘Umar said to Ibn Ziyad. “He 
mentioned these things” 


296 


“The faithful would not betray you,” said Ibn Ziyad to (Muslim), “But the traitor 
was confided in. As for what you have, it is yours, and we will not prevent you 
from doing with it what you like. As for the body when we have killed it, we do 
not care what is done with it. As for al-Husayn, if he does not intend (harm) to 
us, we will not intend (harm) to him.” 


Then Ibn Ziyad said: “Ibn ‘Aqil, you came to the people while they were all 
(united) and you scattered them and divided their opinions so that some of them 
attacked others” 

“No,” replied Ibn ‘Aqil, “I did not come for that but (because) the people of the 
town claimed that your father had killed their best men, shed their blood and 
appointed governors among them like the governors of Choesroe and Caesar. We 
came to enjoin justice and to urge rule by the Book.” 


“What are you (to do) with that, you great sinner?” cried Ibn Ziyad. “Why did 
you not do that among the people when you were drinking wine in Medina?” 
“Me, drink wine! By Allah, Allah knows you are not speaking the truth, and have 
spoken without any knowledge, for I am not like what you have said. It is you 
who are more correctly described as drinking wine than me, (you) who lap the 
blood of Muslims and kill the life whose killing Allah has forbidden and (you are 
one) who sheds sacred blood on behalf of usurpation, enmity and evil opinion 
while he (Yazid) enjoys himself and plays as if he had done nothing.” 


“You great sinner (fasiq),” shouted Ibn Ziyad, “your own soul made you desire 
what Allah prevented you from having (i.e. authority) (because) Allah did not 
regard you as worthy of it.” 

“Who is worthy of it, if we are not worthy of it?! asked Muslim 

“The Commander of the faithful, Yazid,” answered Ibn Ziyad. 

“Praise be to Allah,” called out Muslim. “We will accept Allah’s judgement 
between us and you in every circumstance.” 

“May Allah kill me, if I do not kill you in such a way as no one in Islam has 
(ever) been killed before,” retorted Ibn Ziyad. 

“You are the person with the most right to commit crimes of innovation in 
Islam which have not been committed before,” Muslim replied, “for you 
will never abandon evil murder, wicked punishment, shameful practice and 
avaricious domination to anyone (else).” 


Ibn Ziyad began to curse him, and to curse al-Husayn, ‘Alt and ‘Aqil, peace be 
on them, while Muslim did not speak to him. 

“Take him up to the top of the palace,” ordered Ibn Ziyad. “and cut off his head, 
(throw it to the ground) and make (his body) follow it (to the ground).” 


297 


“By Allah,” said Muslim. “if there was any (real) kinship between you and me, 
you would not kill me.” 


“Where is the man whose head Ibn ‘Aqil struck with (his) sword?” asked Ibn 
Ziyad. Then Bakr b. Humran al-Ahmari was summoned and he told him: “Climb 
up, and you be the one who cuts his head off.” 


He went up with him. He (Muslim) said: “Allah is greater (Allahu Akbar).” He 
sought forgiveness from Allah and prayed for blessings on the Apostle, saying: 
“O Allah, judge between us and a people who have enticed us, lied against us 
and deserted us.” 


They (took) him to a part which overlooked where the shoemakers are today. His 
head was cut off (and thrown down) and his body was made to follow his head. 
Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath, then approached ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad and spoke to 
him of Hani’ b. ‘Urwa. He said: “You know of the position of Hani’ in the town 
and of his House in the clan. His people know that I and my colleague brought 
him to you. I adjure you before Allah, hand him over to me for I would not like 
(to face) the enmity of the town and his family.” 


He promised to do that but then afterwards something occurred to him and he 
ordered Hani’ (to be) taken (immediately) to the marketplace and (his head) cut 
off. 


Hani’ was taken in chains until he was brought to a place where sheep were sold. 
He began to shout “O Madhhij! There is no one from Madhhi for me today! O 
Madhhij, where is Madhhij?” 


When he realised that no one was going to help him, he pulled his hand and 
wrenched it free of the chain, crying: “What is there, stick, knife, stone or bone, 
with which a man can defend his life?” 


(At this) they jumped upon him and tied the chain (more) tightly. He was told to 
stretch out his neck but he answered: “I am not so liberal with my life and I will 


not help you (to take) my life.” 


A Turkish retainer (mawia) of ‘Ubayd Allah called Rashid struck him with a 
sword but it did not do anything. 


“To Allah is the return. O Allah to Your mercy and Your paradise,” called out 
Hani’. Then (Rashid) struck him with another blow and killed him. 


298 


Concerning Muslim b. ‘Aqil and Hani’ b. ‘Urwa, may Allah have mercy upon 
them, ‘Abd Allah b. al-Zubayr al-Asadi said:'° 
If you do not know what death is, then look at Hani’ in the market-place 
and Ibn ‘Aqil: 


(Look at) a hero whose face has been covered with wounds and another 
who fell dead from a high place. 


The command of the governor struck them (down) and they became 
legends for those who travel on every road. 


You see a corpse whose colour death has changed and a spattering of 
blood which has flowed abundantly; 


A young man who was (even) more bashful than a shy young woman, 
was more decisive than the polished blade of a two edged sword. 


Is Asma’ riding in safety a mount which moves at walking pace while 
Madhhij urged him to seek vengeance 


And Murad wander around him? Are all of them in fear of the questioner 
and the questioned? 


If you do not avenge your two brothers, then be harlots satisfied with little. 


When Muslim and Hani’ were killed, the mercy of Allah be on them, 

‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad sent their heads with Hani’ b. Abt Hayya al-Wadi‘ 

and al-Zubayr b. al-Arwah al-Tamimi to Yazid b. Mu‘awiya. He ordered his 

secretary (Aatib) to write to Yazid about what had happened to Muslim and 

Hani’. The secretary who was ‘Amr b. Nafi‘ — wrote but he was very wordy (in 

his style). He was the first to be wordy in writing letters. When ‘Ubayd Allah 

saw the letter, he disliked it. 

“What is this prolixity and this excess?” he asked. 

“Write: 
Praise be to Allah, Who exacted the dues of the Commander of the 
faithful and has given him sufficient provisions against his enemy. I (am 
writing to) inform the Commander of the faithful that Muslim b. ‘Aqil 
took refuge in the house of Hani’ b. ‘Urwa al-Muradt. I set look-outs 
and spies on them, concealed men against them, I tricked them until I 
brought them out. Allah gave me power over them. Thus I came upon 


16 Al-Tabari reports that the verses are also attributed to al-Farazdaq, II, 266. 


299 


them and had them executed. I have sent their heads to you with Hani’ 
b. Abi Hayya al-Wadi‘t and al-Zubayr b. al-Arwah al-Tamimi. They are 
both people who are attentive and in obedience to you, and of sincerity. 
Let the Commander of the faithful ask them about whatever of the affair 
he may wish; for they have knowledge and truth. 

Farewell. Greetings.” 


Yazid b. Mu‘awiya wrote (back): 

You have not gone beyond what I wanted. You have acted with the 
decisive action I wanted. You have launched into the attack with the 
violence of man who has control of his emotion. You have satisfied 
me, been sufficient for (the task) and corroborated my view of you 
and my opinion of you. I have summoned your two messengers and 
questioned them, and talked to them. I found them in their views and 
merit as you had mentioned. Receive them both with kindness on my 
recommendation. I have been informed that al-Husayn has set out for 
Iraq. Therefore set look-outs and watches, be vigilant and detain 
suspicious (characters). Put to death (any who are) accused and write 
to me about any news which occurs. Allah, the Exalted, wishing. 


Muslim b. ‘Aqil’s (attempted) rising in Kifa was on Tuesday, 8th of Dht al- 
Hijja in the year 60 A.H. (680). He, may Allah have mercy on him, was killed 
on Wednesday, 9th of Dht al-Hijja, the Day of ‘Arafa. Al-Husayn, the 
blessings of Allah be on him, set out from Mecca to Iraq on the day of 
Muslim’s (attempted) rising in Ktfa, that is the Day of Zarwiya,'’ after staying 
in Mecca for the rest of Sha‘ban, the month of Ramadan, Shawwal and Dhi al- 
Qa‘da, and eight days of Dht al-Hijja. In his stay in Mecca, peace be on him, a 
number of Hijazis and Basrans had gathered around him, joining themselves to 
his household and his retainers. 


When he determined on journeying to Iraq, He made the circumambulation of 
the (sacred) House and the ritual running between al-Safa and al-Marwa.!® Then 
he left the state of consecration (for the pilgrimage) (after) he had performed 
the lesser pilgrimage (‘umra) because he was not able to perform the greater 
pilgrimage (Hajj). Through fear of being apprehended in Mecca, and being taken 
to Yazid b. Mu‘awiya, He, peace be upon him, had set out early with his House, 
his sons and those of his Shi‘a who had joined him 
17 The Day of ‘Arafa is the day when the pilgrims assemble on Mount ‘Arafa for the pilgrimage. 
The Day of Zarwiya is the day before it when the pilgrims collect water from the well of 
Zamzam. 


18 These are the rituals of the ‘umra, lesser pilgrimage, but they also form part of the ritual of the 
greater pilgrimage. 


300 


[As it has been reported to us:] 
News of Muslim’s (capture and death) had not yet reached him because (it had 
only happened) on the day he set out. 


[It is reported that al-Farazdaq, the poet, said.] 

I made the pilgrimage with my mother in the year 60 A. H. (680). I was driving 
her camel when I entered the sanctuary. (There) I met al-Husayn b. ‘Alt, peace 
be on them, leaving Mecca accompanied by (some men carrying) swords and 
shields. 

“Whose caravan is this?” I asked. 

“al-Husayn b. ‘Ali’s, peace be on them.” was the reply. So I went up and greeted 
him. 


“May Allah grant you your request and (fulfil) your hope in what you want, by 
my father and mother, son of the Apostle of Allah,” I said to him. “But what is 
making you hurry away from the pilgrimage?” 

“Tf did not hurry away, I would be apprehended,” he replied. Then he asked me; 
“Who are you?” 

“An Arab,” I answered and he did not question me (about myself) any further. 


“Tell me about the people you have left behind you,” he asked. 

“You have asked a good (question),” I answered. “The hearts of the people are 
with you but their swords are against you. The decision comes from Heaven and 
Allah does what he wishes.” 


“You have spoken truly of the affair belonging to Allah,” he replied. “Every day 
He (is involved) in (every) matter (LV, 29). If fate sends down what we like and 
are pleased with, we praise Allah for His blessings. He is the One from Whom 
help should be sought in order to give thanks to Him. However, although fate 
may frustrate (our) hopes, yet He does not destroy (the souls of) those whose 
intention is the truth and whose hearts are pious.” 


“True, Allah brings you what you wish for (ultimately) and guards you against 
what you are threatened by,” I said. Then I asked him about matters concerning 
vows and pilgrimage rites. He told me about them and then moved his mount off, 


saying farewell, and so we parted. 


When al-Husayn b ‘Ali, peace be on them, left Mecca, Yahya b. Sa‘id b. al-‘As 
met him with a group (of men). They had been sent to him by ‘Amr b. Sa‘id. 


“Come back from where you are going,” they ordered. But he refused (to obey) 


301 


them and continued. The two groups came to blows and hit at each other with 
whips. However al-Husayn and his followers resisted fiercely. Al-Husayn 
continued until he got to al-Tan‘tm. There he met a camel-train which had come 
from Yemen. He hired from its people (additional) camels for himself and his 
followers to ride. 


Then he said to the owners (of the camels): “Whoever (of you) wants to come 
with us to Iraq, we will pay his hire and enjoy his company and whoever wants 
to leave some way along the road we will pay his hire for the distance he has 
travelled.” 


Some of the people went with him but others refused. ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far sent 
his sons, ‘Awn and Muhammad, after him, and he wrote a letter to him which he 
gave to them. In it, he said: 
I ask you before Allah (to return) if you have set out when you see my 
letter. For I am very concerned because the direction in which you are 
heading will have within it your destruction, and the extirpation of 
your House. If you are destroyed today, the light of the land will be 
extinguished; for you are the (standard) of those who are rightly-guided 
and the hope of the believers. Do not hurry on your journey as I am 
following this letter. 
Greetings. 


‘Abd Allah, then went to ‘Amr b. Sa‘id and asked him to write to al-Husayn 
(offering him) a guarantee of security, and (promising) to favour him, so that he 
would return from where he was going. ‘Amr b. Sa‘Id wrote a letter in which he 
offered him favour and a guarantee of security for himself. He dispatched it with 
his brother Yahya b. Sa‘id. Yahya b. Sa‘id went after him (as did) ‘Abd Allah 
after dispatching his sons. The two handed (‘Amr’s) letter to him and strove (to 
persuade) him to return. 


“T have seen the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, in my 
sleep,” answered (al-Husayn) “and he ordered me (to do) what I am carrying 
out.” 

“What was that vision?” they both asked. 

“T have not told anyone of it,” he answered, “and I am not going tell anyone until 
I meet my Lord, the Mighty and Exalted.” 


When ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far despaired of (persuading) him, he told his sons, ‘Awn 


and Muhammad, to stay with him, to go with him a to struggle on behalf of him. 
He returned with Yahya b. Sa‘1d to Mecca. 


302 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, pressed on swiftly and directly towards Iraq until 
he reached Dhat ‘Irq. 


When ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad had learnt of the journey of al-Husayn, peace be 
on him, from Mecca to Kifa, he had sent al-Husayn b. Numayr, the commander 
of the bodyguard (shurta) to station himself at al-Qadisiyya and to set up a 
(protective) link cavalry between the area of al-Qadisiyya to Khaffan and the 
area al-Qadisiyya to al-Qutqutaniyya. He informed the men that al-Husayn was 
heading for Iraq . 


When al-Husayn, peace be on him, reached al-Hajiz (a hill above) Batn al- 
Rumma, he sent Qays b. Mushir al-Saydawi - some say it was his brother-in- 
nurture, ‘Abd Allah b. Yuqtur - to Kifa.'° For He, peace be upon him, had not yet 
learnt the news of the fate Ibn ‘Aqil. He sent a letter with him: 

In the Name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate 

From al-Husayn b. ‘Ali 


To his brother believers and Muslims, 

Greetings to you, I praise Allah before you, other than whom there is no 
deity. Muslim b. ‘Aqil’s letter came to me, informing me of your sound 
judgement and the agreement of your leaders to support us, and to seek 
our rights. I have asked Allah to make your actions good and reward you 
with the greatest reward. I set out to you from Mecca on 8th of Dhi al- 
Hijja, the day of Zarwiya. When my messenger reaches you, be urgent and 
purposeful in your affairs, for 1 am coming to you Within the (next few) 
days. 

Greeting and the mercy and blessings of Allah. 


Muslim had written to al-Husayn seventeen days before he was killed and the 
Kufans had written to him: “Here you have a hundred thousand swords. Do not 
delay.” 


Qays b. Mushir went towards Kufa with the letter. However, When he reached 
al-Qadisiyya, al-Husayn b. Numayr apprehended him and sent him to ‘Ubayd 
Allah b. Ziyad. 

“Go up on the pulpit.” ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad ordered him. “and curse the liar, 
al-Husayn b. ‘Alt, peace be on him” 


Qays went up on the pulpit and praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: 


19 Al-Tabari reports two separate accounts concerning these two individuals, IT, 289 and 293. As 
they both meet similar ends, al-Mufid’s surmise seems reasonable. 


303 


“People, this man, al-Husayn b. ‘Alt, the best of Allah’s creatures, the son of 
Fatima, the daughter of the Apostle, may Allah bless Him and His Family and 
grant them peace, (is nearby). I am his messenger to you. Answer him.” 


Then he cursed ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad and his father and prayed for forgiveness 
for ‘Alt b. Abt Talib and blessed him. ‘Ubayd Allah ordered him to be thrown 
from the top of the palace. They threw him and he was smashed to pieces. 


[It is (also) reported: ] 

He fell on the ground in chains and his bones were crushed and there only 
remained to him his last breath. A man called ‘Abd al-Malik b. ‘Umayr al- 
Lakhmi came to him and cut his throat. When he was told that that had been a 
shameful (thing to do) and he was blamed for it, he said: “I wanted to relieve him 
(of his suffering).” 


(While this had been going on) al-Husayn, peace be on him, had left Hajiz in 
the direction of Kifa until he came to one of the watering (places) of the Arabs. 
There was ‘Abd Allah b. Muti‘ al-‘Adawi, who was staying there. When he saw 
al-Husayn, peace be on him, he got up and said to him: “(May I ransom) my 
father and mother for you, son of the Apostle of Allah, what has brought you 
(here)?” He brought him (forward) and helped him to dismount. 


“Tt is a result of the death of Mu‘awiya as you would know,” replied al-Husayn, 
peace be on him. “The Iraqis have written to me urging me to (come to) them” 
“T remind you, son of the Apostle of Allah, (of Allah) and the sacredness of 
Islam, lest it be violated. I adjure you before Allah (to think) about the 
sacredness of Quraysh. I adjure you before Allah (to think) about the sacredness 
of the Arabs. By Allah, if you seek that which is in the hands of Bani Umayya, 
they will kill you, If they kill you, they will never fear anyone after you. Then 
it will be the sacredness of Islam which is violated, and the sacredness of 
Quraysh and the sacredness of the Arabs. Don’t do it! Don’t go to Ktifa! Don't 
expose yourself to Banat Umayya!!” 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, insisted on continuing his journey. (In the 
meantime) ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad had ordered (the area) which was between 
Waagisa and the roads to Syria and Basra to be occupied (so that) they should not 
let anyone enter, nor anyone leave (Kifa). 


However, al-Husayn, peace be on him, went on without knowing anything (of 
that) until he met some Arabs. He asked them (about the situation) and they told 
him: “No, by Allah, we don’t know (anything about it) except that we cannot get 


304 


into or out of (Kufa).” 
He continued on his journey. 


[A group of Fazara and Bajila reported (the following account). They said:] 

We were with Zuhayr b. al-Qayn al-Bajali when we came from Mecca. 
(Although) we were travelling alongside al-Husayn, peace be on him, there was 
nothing more hateful to us than that we should stop with him at a halting place. 
(Yet) when al-Husayn, peace be on him, travelled and halted, we could not avoid 
halting with him. Al-Husayn halted at the side (of the road) and we halted at the 
(other) side (of the road). While we were sitting, eating our food, a messenger 
of al-Husayn, peace be on him, approached, greeted us and entered (our camp). 


“Zuhayr b. al-Qayn,” he said, “Abt ‘Abd Allah al-Husayn, peace be on him, has 
sent me to you (to ask) you to come to him.” 


Each man of us threw away what was in his hands (i.e. threw up his hand in 
horror): it was (as surprising) as if birds had alighted on our heads. 

“Glory be to Allah,” (Zuhayr’s) wife said to him, “did the son of the Messenger 
of Allah send for you? Then aren’t you going to him? If you went to him, you 
would hear what he had to say. Then you could leave him (if you wanted to).” 


Zuhayr b. al-Qayn went (across) to him. It was not long before he returned to 
announce that he was heading east. He ordered his tent (to be struck) and (called 
for) his luggage, mounts and equipment. His tent was pulled down and taken to 
al-Husayn, peace be on him, then he said to his wife: “You are divorced, go back 
to your family, for I do not want anything to befall you except good.” 


Then he said to his companions: “Whoever wants to follow me (may do so), 
otherwise he is at the end of his covenant with me (i.e. released from obedience 
to follow Zuhayr as the leader of his tribal group). I will tell you a story (of 
something which happened to me once): We were raiding a rich land. Allah 
granted us victory and we won (a lot of) booty. Salman al-Farsi, the mercy 
of Allah be on him, said to us: ‘Are you happy with the victory which Allah 
has granted you and the booty you have won?’ We said: ‘Yes.’ Then he 
said: ‘Therefore when you meet the lord of the young men of the family of 
Muhammad be happier to fight with them than you are with the booty which you 
have obtained today.’ As for me, I pray that Allah may be with you.” 


He remained among the people with al-Husayn until he was killed. 
[‘Abd Allah b. Sulayman and al-Mundhir b. Musham‘ill both from Asad, 


305 


reported: ] 

When we had finished the pilgrimage, there was no concern more important to us 
than to join al-Husayn, peace be on him, on the road, so that we might see what 
happened in his affair. We went along trotting our two camels speedily until we 
joined him at Zartd. As we approached, there we (saw) a man from Kufa who 
had changed his route when he had seen al-Husayn, peace be on him. Al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, had stopped as if he wanted (to speak to) him, but (the man) 
ignored him and went on. We went on towards the man. One of us said to the 
other: “Come with us to ask this man if he has news of Kifa.” 


We came up to him and greeted him. He returned out greeting. 

“From which (tribe) do you come, fellow?” we asked. 

“(. am) an Asadi,” he answered. 

“We also are Asadis,” we said. “Who are you?” 

“T am Bakr b. so and so,” he answered and we told him our lineage. 

“Tell us of the people (you have left) behind you?” we asked. 

“Yes,” he replied, “I only left Kufa after Muslim b. ‘Aqil and Hani’ b. ‘Urwa had 
been killed. I saw them being dragged by their legs into the market-place.” 


We went on to join al-Husayn, peace be on him, and we were travelling close to 
him until he stopped at al-Tha‘labiyya in the evening. We caught up with him 
when he stopped and we greeted him. He returned our greeting. 

“May Allah have mercy on you,” we said, “we have news. If you wish, we will 
tell it to you publicly or if you wish, secretly.” 


He looked at us and at his followers. 

“There is no veil for these men,” he answered . 

“Did you see the rider who whom you were near, yesterday evening'?” 

“Yes,” he answered. “I had wanted to question him .” 

“We have got the news from him and spared you (the trouble of) questioning 
him,” we said. “He was a man from our (tribe), of sound judgement, honesty 
and intelligence. He told us that he had only left Kifa after Muslim and Hani’ 
had been killed, and he had seen them being dragged by their legs into the 
market-place.” 

“We belong to Allah and to Him we shall return; may Allah have mercy on them 
both.” said al-Husayn and he repeated that several times 


“We adjure you before Allah.” we exhorted him. “for your own life and for your 
house that you do not go from this place, for you have no one to support you in 
Kufa and no Shi‘a. Indeed we fear that such men (will be the very ones who) will 
be against you.” 


306 


“What is your opinion,” he asked, looking towards the sons of ‘Aqil, “now that 
Muslim has been killed?” 

“By Allah,” they declared, “we will not go back until we have taken our 
vengeance or have tasted (the death) which he tasted.” 

Al-Husayn, peace be on him, came near us and said. “There is nothing good 
(left) in life for these men.” 


Then we knew that his decision had been taken to continue the journey. 
“May Allah be good to you,” we said. 
“May Allah have mercy on you both,” he answered. 


Then his followers said to him: “By Allah, you are not the same as Muslim b. 
‘Adil. If you go to Kifa, the people will rush to (support) you.” 


He was silent and waited until daybreak. Then he ordered his boys and 
servants to get a lot of water, to give (the people) to drink and more for the 
journey. They set out (once more) and went on to Zubala. News of ‘Abd Allah 
b. Yuqtur reached him. He took out a written statement to the people and read it 
to them: 
In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate, 
News of the dreadful murder of Muslim b. ‘Aqil, Hani’ b. ‘Urwa, and 
‘Abd Allah b. Yugtur has reached us. Our Shi‘a have deserted us. Those of 
you who would prefer to leave us, may leave freely without guilt. 


The people began to disperse from him to right and left until there were only 
left with him those followers who had come with him from Medina, and a 
small group of those who had joined him. Al-Husayn had done that because he 
realised that the Arabs who had followed him had only followed him because 
they thought that he was going to a land where the inhabitants’ obedience to 
him had already been established. And he did not want them to accompany him 
without being (fully) aware of what they were going to. 


At dawn, he ordered his followers to provide themselves with water and with 
extra (supplies of it). Then they set out until they passed Batn al-‘Aqaba. He 
stopped there and was met by a shaykh of the Bani ‘Ikrima called ‘Amr b. 
Lawdhan. 

“Where are you heading?,” he asked. 

“Kifa,” replied al-Husayn, peace be on him. 

“T implore you before Allah,” exhorted the shaykh, “why are you going there? 
You won’t come to anything there except the points of spears and the edges 
of swords. If those who sent for you were enough to support you in battle and 


307 


had prepared the ground for you, and you came to them, that would be a wise 
decision. However, in the light of the situation as it has been described I don’t 
think that you ought to do it.” 


“Servant of Allah,” he answered, “wise decisions are not hidden from me. Yet the 
commands of Allah, the Exalted, cannot be resisted. By Allah, (my enemies) will 
not leave me till they have torn the very heart from the depths of my guts. If they 
do that, Allah will cause them to be dominated and humiliated until they become 
the most humiliated of the factions among nations.” 


He, peace be on him, went on from Batn al-‘Aqaba until he stopped at Sharaf (for 
the night). At dawn he ordered his boys to get water and more (for the journey). 
Then he continued from there until midday. While he was journeying, one of his 
followers exclaimed: “Allah is greater (Allahu akbar)!” 

“Allah is greater (Al/ahu akbar)!” responded al-Husayn, peace be on him. Then 
he asked: “Why did you say Allahu akbar?” 

“T saw palm-trees,” answered the man. 

“This is a place in which we never see a palm-tree,” a group of his followers 
asserted. 

“What do you think it is then?” asked al-Husayn, peace be on him. 

“We think it is the ears of horses,” they answered. 

“By Allah, I think so too,” he declared. Then he said: “(So that) we can face them 
in one direction (i.e. so that we are not surrounded), we should put at our rear 
whatever place of refuge (we can find).” 


“Yes,” (lit. we)? said to him, “there is Dhi Husam over on your left. If you reach 
it before them, it will be (in) just (the position) you want.” So he veered left 
towards it and we went in that direction with him. Even before we had had time 
to change direction the vanguard of the cavalry appeared in front of us and we 
could see them clearly. We left the road and when they saw that we had moved 
off the road, they (also) moved off the road towards us. Their spears looked like 
palm branches stripped of their leaves and their standards were like birds’ wings. 
al-Husayn ordered his tents (to be put up) and they were erected. The people 
came up; (there were) about one thousand horsemen under the command of al- 
Hurr b. Yazid al-Tamimi. (It was) during the heat of midday (that) he and his 
cavalry stood (thus) facing al-Husayn, peace be on him. Al-Husayn, peace be on 
him, and his followers were all wearing their turbans and their swords (ready to 
fight). 


20 Mufid has switched into the first person narrative of an eye-witness accouont as presented by 
Ibn al-Kalbi. cf. al-Tabart, II, 296 


308 


“Provide (our) people with water and let them quench their thirst and give their 
horses water to drink little by little.” al-Husayn ordered his boys. They did that 
and they began filling their bowls and cups and took them to the horses. When 
a horse had drunk three or four or five draughts, the water was taken away and 
given to another horse until they had all been watered. 


[‘Ali b. al-Ta‘an al-Muharibi reported: | 

I was with al-Hurr on that day, I was among the last of his followers to arrive. 
When al-Husayn, peace be on him, saw how thirsty both I and my horse were, he 
said: “Make your beast (rawiya) kneel.” I thought rawiya meant water-skin so he 
said: “Cousin, make your camel (jamal) kneel.” I did so. Then he said: “Drink.” 
I did so, but when I drank, water flowed from my water-skin. 


“Bend your water-skin,” said al-Husayn. I did not know how to do that. He came 
up (to me) and bent it (into the proper position for drinking). Then I drank and 
gave my horse to drink. 


Al-Hurr b. Yazid had come from al-Qadisiyya. ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad had sent 
al-Husayn b. Numayr and ordered him to take up (his) position at al-Qadisiyya. 
Then al-Hurr had been sent in advance with one thousand horsemen to meet al- 
Husayn. 


Al-Hurr remained positioned opposite to al-Husayn, peace be on him, until the 
time for the midday prayer drew near. Al-Husayn, peace be on him, ordered 
al-Hajjaj b. Masrtiq to give the call to prayer. When the second call to prayer 
immediately preceding the prayer (igama) was about (to be made) al-Husayn 
came out (before the people) dressed in a waist-cloth (izar) and cloak (rida@’) and 
wearing a pair of sandals. He praised and glorified Allah, then he said: “People, 
I did not come to you until your letters came to me, and they were brought by 
your messengers (saying), ‘Come to us for we have no Imam. Through you may 
Allah unite us under guidance and truth.’ Since this was your view, I have come 
to you. Therefore give me what you guaranteed in your covenants and (sworn) 
testimonies. If you will not and (if you) are (now) averse to my coming, I will 
leave you (and go back) to the place from which I came,” 


They were silent before him. Not one of them said a word. “Recite the igama.” 
he said to the caller for prayer (mu ‘adhdhin) and he recited the igama. 


“Do you want to lead your followers in prayer?” he asked al-Hurr b. Yazid. 
“No,” he replied, “but you pray and we will pray (following the lead of) your 


prayer.” 


309 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, prayed before them. Then he returned (to his tent) 
and his followers gathered around him. Al-Hurr went back to the place where he 
had positioned (his men) and entered a tent which had been put up for him. A 
group of his followers gathered around him while the rest returned to their ranks, 
which they had been in and which now they went back to. Each of them held the 
reins of his mount and sat in the shade (of its body). 


At the time for the afternoon (‘asr) prayer, al-Husayn, peace be on him, ordered 
his followers to prepare for departure. Then he ordered the call to be made, 
and the call for the ‘asr prayer was made, and the igama. Al-Husayn, peace 
be on him, came forward, stood and prayed Then he said the final greeting (of 
the prayer) and turned his face towards them (al-Hurr’s men). He praised and 
glorified Allah and said: “People, if you fear Allah and recognise the rights of 
those who have rights, Allah will be more satisfied with you. We are the House 
of Muhammad and as such are more entitled to the authority (wildya) of this 
affair (i.e. the rule of the community) over you than these pretenders who claim 
what does not belong to them. They have brought tyranny and aggression among 
you. If you refuse (us) because you dislike (us) or do not know our rights, and 
your view has now changed from what came to us in your letters and what your 
messengers brought, then I will leave you.” 


“By Allah,” declared al-Hurr, “I know nothing of these letters and messengers 
which you mention.” 

““Uqba b Sim‘an,” al-Husayn, peace be on him, called to one of his followers, 
“bring out the two saddle-bags in which the letters to me are kept,” 


He brought out two saddle-bags which were full of documents, and they were 
put before him. 

“We are not among those who wrote these letters to you.” said al-Hurr, “and we 
have been ordered that when we meet you we should not leave you until we have 
brought you to Kifa to ‘Ubayd Allah.” 

“Death will come to you before that (happens),” al-Husayn, peace be on him, 
told him. Then he ordered his followers, “Get up and get mounted.” 


They got mounted and (then) waited until their women had been mounted. 
“Depart,” he ordered his followers. 


When they set out to leave, the men (with al-Hurr) got in between them and the 
direction they were going in. “May Allah deprive your mother of you,” said al- 
Husayn, peace be on him, to al-Hurr, “what do you want?” 

“Tf any of the Arabs other than you were to say that to me,” retorted al-Hurr, 


310 


“even though he were in the same situation as you, I would not leave him 
without mentioning his mother being deprived (of him), whoever he might be. 
But by Allah there is no way for me to mention your mother except by (saying) 
the best things possible.” 


“What do you want?” al-Husayn, peace be on him, demanded. 

“T want to go with you to the governor, ‘Ubayd Allah,” he replied. 
“Then by Allah I will not follow you.” 

“Then by Allah I will not let you (go anywhere else).” 


These statements were repeated three times, and when their conversation was 
getting more (heated) al-Hurr said: “I have not been ordered to fight you. I have 
only been ordered not to leave you until I come with you to Kifa. If you refuse 
(to do that), then take any road which will not bring you into Kufa nor take you 
back to Medina, and let that be a compromise between us while I write to the 
governor, ‘Ubayd Allah. Perhaps Allah will cause something to happen which 
will relieve me from having to do anything against you. Therefore take this 
(road) here and bear to the left of the road (to) al-‘Udhayb and al-Qadisiyya.” 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, departed, and al-Hurr with his followers (also) 
set out travelling close by him, while al-Hurr was saying to him: “Al-Husayn, 
I remind you (before) Allah to (think of) your life; for I testify that you will be 
killed if you fight.” 
“Do you think that you can frighten me with death?” said al-Husayn, peace be 
on him. “Could a worse disaster happen to you than killing me? I can only speak 
(to you) as the brother of al-Aws said to his cousin when he wanted to help the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant Him and His Family peace. His 
cousin feared for him and said: ‘Where are you going, for you will be killed?’ 
but he replied: 
I will depart for there is no shame in death for a young man, whenever he 
intends (to do what is) right and he strives like a Muslim, 


(Who) has soothed righteous men through (the sacrifice of) his life, who 
has scattered the cursed and opposed the criminal. 


If I live, I will not regret (what I have done) and if I die, I will not suffer. 
Let it be enough for you to live in humiliation and be reviled.” 


When al-Hurr heard that he drew away from him. He and his follower, travelled 
on one side (of the road) while al-Husayn, peace be on him, travelled on the 


other, until they reached ‘Udhayb al-Hijanat. Al-Husayn, peace be on him, went 


311 


on to Qasr Bani Muqatil. He stopped there and there a large lent had (already) 
been erected. 


“Whose is that?” he asked. 
“That belongs to ‘Ubayd Allah b. al-Hurr al-Ju‘fi,” he was told. 
“Ask him to come to me,” he said. 


The messenger went to him and said: “This is al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, peace be on 
them, and he asks you to come to him.” 

“We belong to Allah and to Him we shall return,” said ‘Ubayd Allah. “By Allah, 
I only left Ktifa out of dread that al-Husayn, peace be on him, would enter Kufa 
while I was there. By Allah, I do not want to see him, nor him to see me.” 


The messenger returned to him (al-Husayn). Al-Husayn, peace be on him, rose 
and went over to him. He greeted him and sat down. Then he asked him to go 
with him. ‘Ubayd Allah b. al-Hurr repeated what he had said before and sought 
to excuse himself from what he was asking him (to do). 


“Tf you are not going to help us,” al-Husayn, peace be on him, said to him. “then 
be sure that you are not one of those who fight against us. For, by Allah, no one 
will hear our cry and not help us without being destroyed.” 


“As for that (fighting against you),” he replied, “it will never happen, If Allah, 
the Exalted. wishes.” 


Then al-Husayn, peace be on him, left him and continued to his camp. Towards 
the end of the night, he ordered his boys to get provisions of water. Then he 
ordered the journey (to continue). He set out from Qasr Bant Mudatil. 


[‘Ugqba b. Sim‘an reported:] 

We set out at once with him and he became drowsy while he was on his horse’s 
back. He woke up, saying: “We belong to Allah and to Him we will return. Praise 
be to Allah, Lord of the worlds.” 


He did that twice or three times, then his son, ‘Ali b. al-Husayn approached him 
and asked: “Why are you praising Allah and repeating the verse of returning to 
Him?” 

“My son,” he answered, “I nodded off and a horseman appeared to me, riding a 
horse and he said: ‘Men are travelling and the fates travel towards them.’ Then I 
knew it was our own souls announcing our deaths to us.” 


312 


“Father,” asked (the youth), “does Allah regard you as evil? Are we not in the 
right?” 

“Indeed (we are),” he answered, “by Him to Whom all His servants must return.” 
“Father,” said (the youth), “then we need have no concern, if we are going to die 
righteously.” 

“May Allah give you the best reward a son can get for (his behaviour towards) 
his father,” answered al-Husayn, peace be on him. 


In the morning, he stopped and prayed the morning prayer. Then he hurried to 
remount and to continue the journey with his followers, veering to the left with 
the intention of separating from (al-Hurr’s men). However al-Hurr b. Yazid came 
towards him and stopped him and his followers (from going in that direction) and 
he began to (exert pressure to) turn them towards Kufa, but they resisted him. 
So they stopped (doing that) but they still accompanied them in the same way 
until they reached Ninawa, (which was) the place where al-Husayn, peace be on 
him, stopped. Suddenly there appeared a rider on a fast mount, bearing weapons 
and carrying a bow on his shoulder, coming from Kifa. They all stopped and 
watched him. When he reached them, he greeted al-Hurr and his followers and 
did not greet al-Husayn and his followers. He handed a letter from ‘Ubayd Allah 
b. Ziyad to al-Hurr. In it (was the following): 
When this letter reaches you and my messenger comes to you, make al- 
Husayn come to a halt. But only let him stop in an open place without 
vegetation. I have ordered my messenger to stay with you and not to leave 
you until he brings me (news of) your carrying out my instructions. 
Greetings. 


When al-Hurr had read the letter, he told them: “This is a letter from the governor 
“‘Ubayd Allah. He has ordered me to bring you to a halt at a place which his letter 
suggests. This is his messenger and he has ordered him not to leave me until I 
carry out the order with regard to you.” . 


Yazid (b. Ziyad) b. al-Muhajir al-Kindt who was with al-Husayn, peace be on 
him, looked at the messenger of Ibn Ziyad and he recognized him. 

“May your mother be deprived of you.” he exclaimed, “what a business you have 
come to!” 

“T have obeyed my Imam and remained faithful to my pledge of allegiance,” (the 
other man) answered. 

“You have been disobedient to your Lord and have obeyed your Imam in 
bringing about the destruction of your soul,” responded Ibn al-Muhajir. “You 
have acquired (eternal) shame (for yourself) and (the punishment of) Hell-fire. 
What a wicked Imam your Imam is! Indeed Allah has said: We have made them 


313 


Imams who summon (people) to Hell-fire and on the Day of Resurrection they 
will not be helped. (XXVIII 41) Your Imam is one of those.” 


Al-Hurr b. Yazid began to make the people stop in a place that was without water 
and where there was no village. 

“Shame upon you, let us stop at this village or that one,” said al-Husayn, peace 
be on him. He meant by this, Ninawa and al-Ghadiriyya, and by that, Shufayya. 
“By Allah, I cannot do that,” replied (al-Hurr), “for this man has been sent to me 
as a spy.” 


“Son of the Apostle of Allah,” said Zuhayr b. al-Qayn, “I can only think that 
after what you have seen, the situation will get worse than what you have seen. 
Fighting these people, now, will be easier for us than fighting those who will 
come against us after them. For by my life, after them will come against us such 
(a number) as we will not have the power (to fight) against” 

“T will not begin to fight against them,” answered al-Husayn. 


That was Thursday, 2nd of (the month of) Muharram in the year 61 A.H. (680). 
On the next day, ‘Umar b. Sa‘d b. Abt Waqqas set out from Kufa with four 
thousand horsemen He stopped at Ninawa and sent for ‘Urwa b. Qays al- 
Ahmas?”! and told him: “Go to him (al-Husayn) and ask him: What brought you, 
and what do you want?” 


‘Urwa was one of those who had written to al-Husayn, peace be on him, and 
he was ashamed to do that. The same was the case with all the leaders who had 
written to him, and all of them refused and were unwilling to do that. Kathir b. 
‘Abd Allah al-Sha‘bi stood up - he was a brave knight who never turned his face 
away from anything - and said: “I will go to him. By Allah, if you wish, I will 
tush on him.” 

"T don't want you to attack him.” said ‘Umar, “but go to him and ask him what 
has brought him.” 


As Kathir was approaching him, Abii Thumama al-Sa’idi saw him and said to 
al-Husayn, “May Allah benefit you, Abu ‘Abd Allah, the wickedest man in the 
land, the one who has shed the most blood and the boldest of them all in attack, 
is coming towards you.” 

Then (Abu Thumama) stood facing him and said: “Put down your sword.” 

“No, by Allah,” he replied, “I am only a messenger. If you will listen to me, I 
will tell you (the message) which I have been sent to bring to you. If you refuse, 


21 ‘Azra in al-Tabari. 1,309. The same difference is maintained concerning the letter. cf. 304, 
footnote 9. 


314 


I will go away.” 


“T will take the hilt of your sword,” answered (Abu Thumama), “and you can say 
what you need to.” 
“No, by Allah, you will not touch it,” he retorted. 


“Then tell me what you have brought and I will inform him for you. But I will 
not let you go near him, for you are a charlatan.” 


They both (stood there and) cursed each other. Then (Kathir) went back to ‘Umar 
b. Sa‘d and told him the news (of what had happened). ‘Umar summoned Qurra 
b. Qays al-Hanzali and said to him: “Shame upon you Qurra, go and meet al- 
Husayn and ask him what brought him and what he wants.” 


Qurra began to approach him. When al-Husayn, peace be on him, saw him 
approaching. he asked: “Do you know that man?' 


“Yes,” replied Habib b. Muzahir, “he is from the Hanzala clan of Tamim. He is 
the son of our sister. I used to know him as a man of sound Judgement. I would 
not have thought that he would be present at this scene.” 


He came and greeted al-Husayn, peace be on him. Then he informed him of 
‘Umar b. Sa‘d’s message. 


“The people of this town of yours wrote to me that I should come,” answered al- 
Husayn, peace be on him. “However, if now you have come to dislike me, then 
I will leave you.” 


“Shame upon you, Qurra,” Habib b. Muzahir said to him, “will you return to 
those unjust men? Help this man through whose fathers Allah will grant you 
(great) favour.” 


“T will (first) return to my leader with the answer to his message,” replied Qurra, 
“and then I will reflect on my views.” 


He went back to ‘Umar b. Sa‘d and gave him his report. 

“T hope that Allah will spare me from making war on him and fighting against 

him,” said ‘Umar and then he wrote to ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad: 
In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate. I am (writing this 
from) where I have positioned myself, near al-Husayn, and I have asked 
him what brought him and what he wants. He answered: ‘The people of 


315 


this land wrote to me and their messengers came to me asking me to come 
and I have done so. However if (now) they have come to dislike me and 
(the position) now appears different to them from what their messengers 
brought to me, I will go away from them.’ 


[Hassan b. Qa’id al-‘Absi reported: ] 
I was with ‘Ubayd Allah when this letter came to him, he read it and then he 
recited: 
Now when our claws cling to him, he hopes for escape but he will be 
prevented (now) from (getting) any refuge. 


He wrote to ‘Umar b. Sa‘d: 
Your letter has reached me and I have understood what you mentioned. 
Offer al-Husayn (the opportunity) of him and all his followers pledging 
allegiance to Yazid. If he does that, we will then see what our judgement 
will be. 


When the answer reached ‘Umar b. Sa‘d, he said: “I fear that ‘Ubayd Allah will 
not accept that I should be spared (fighting al-Husayn).” 


(Almost immediately) after it, there came (another) letter from Ibn Ziyad (in 
which he said): “Prevent al-Husayn and his followers from (getting) water. Do 
not let them taste a drop of it just as was done with ‘Uthman b. ‘Affan.” 


At once ‘Umar b. Sa‘d sent ‘Amr b al-Hajjaj with five hundred horsemen to 
occupy the path to the water and prevent al-Husayn and his followers from 
(getting) water in order that they should (not) drink a drop of it. That was three 
days before the battle against al-Husayn, peace be on him. 


“Abd Allah b. al-Husayn al-Azdi, who was numbered among Bajila, called out at 
the top of his voice: “Husayn, don’t you see that the water is as if in the middle 
of heaven. By Allah, you will not taste a drop of it until you die of thirst.” 


“O Allah, make him die of thirst and never forgive him,” cried al-Husayn, peace 
be on him. 


[Humayd b. Muslim reported:] 

By Allah, later I visited him when he was ill. By Allah, other than whom there 
is no deity, I saw him drinking water without being able to quench his thirst, and 
then vomiting. He would cry out, “The thirst, the thirst!” Again he would drink 
water without being able to quench his thirst, again he would vomit. He would 


316 


then burn with thirst. This went on until he died, may Allah curse him. 


When al-Husayn saw the extent of the number of troops encamped with ‘Umar b. 
Sa‘d, may Allah curse him, at Ninawa in order to do battle against him, he sent to 
‘Umar b. Sa‘d that he wanted to meet him. The two men met at night and talked 
together for a long time. (When) ‘Umar b. Sa‘d went back to his camp, he wrote 
to ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad, may he be cursed. 
Allah has put out the fire of hatred, united (the people) in one opinion (lit. 
word), and set right the affairs of the community. This man, al-Husayn, 
has given me a promise that he will return to the place which he came 
from, or he will go to one of the border outposts - he will become like any 
(other) of the Muslims, with the same rights and duties as them; or he will 
go to Yazid, the Commander of the Faithful, and offer him his hand and 
see (if the difference) between them (can be reconciled). In this (offer) you 
have the consent (to what you have demanded) and the community gains 
benefit. 


When ‘Ubayd Allah read the letter, he said: “This is the letter about a sincere 
man who is anxious for his people.” 


“Are you going to accept this from him,” demanded Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan, 
jumping up, “when he has encamped on your land nearby? By Allah if he was a 
man from your land and he would not put his hand in yours, whether he was in 
a position of power and strength (or) whether he was in a position of weakness 
and impotence you would not give this concession, for it would be (a mark) of 
weakness. Rather let him and his followers submit to your authority. Then if you 
punish them, (it will be because) you are the (person) most appropriate to punish, 
and if you forgive them, you have the right (to do so).” 


“What you have suggested is good,” replied Ibn Ziyad. “Your view is the 
correct view. Take this message to ‘Umar b. Sa‘d and let him offer al-Husayn and 
his followers (the opportunity of) submitting to my authority. If they do that, let 
him send them to me in peace. If they refuse, he should fight them. If he (“Umar 
b. Sa‘d) acts (according to) my instructions, then listen to him and obey him. 
However if he refuses to fight them then you are the commander of the army (lit. 
people), attack him, cut his head off and send it to me.” 


Then he wrote to ‘Umar b. Sa‘d: 
I did not send you to al-Husayn for you to restrain yourself from 
(fighting) him, nor to idle the time away with him, nor to promise him 
peace and preservation (of his life), nor to make excuses for him, nor to 


317 


be an intercessor on his behalf with me. Therefore see that if al-Husayn 
and his followers submit to my authority and surrender, you send them to 
me in peace. If they refuse, then march against them to fight them and to 
punish them; for they deserve that. If al-Husayn is killed, make the horses 
trample on his body, both front and back; for he is a disobedient rebel, 
and I do not consider that this will be in any way wrong after death. But 
it is my view that you should do this to him if you kill him. If you carry 
out your command concerning him, we will give you the reward due to 
one who is attentive and obedient. If you refuse, then we withdraw (the 
command of) our province and army from you and leave the army to 
Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan. We have given him our authority. 

Greetings. 


Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan brought the letter to ‘Umar b Sa‘d. After he had 
brought it and read it, ‘Umar said to him: “Shame upon you, what is this to you? 
May Allah never show favour to your house. May Allah make abominable what 
you have brought to me! By Allah, I did not think that you would cause him to 
refuse what I had written to him, and ruin for us a matter which we had hoped 
to set right. Al-Husayn will not surrender, for there is a spirit like (his) father’s 
in his body.” 


“Tell me what you are going to do,” demanded Shamir. “Are you going to carry 
out the governor’s command and fight his enemy or are you going to leave the 
command of the army to me?” 


“No, (there is going to be) no advantage to you. I will carry that out instead of 
you. You take command of the foot-soldiers.” 


‘Umar b. Sa‘d prepared to (do battle with) al-Husayn, peace be on him, on the 
night of Thursday, 9th of the month of Muharram. (In the meantime) Shamir 
went out and stood in front of the followers of al-Husayn, peace be on him. 
“Where are my sister’s sons?” he demanded. Al-‘Abbas, Ja‘far, ‘Abd Allah and 
“‘Uthman, sons of ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, came forward. 


“What do you want?” they asked 

“Sons of my sister, you are guaranteed security,” he said. 

“Allah curse you and curse the security which you offer without offering it to the 
son of the Apostle of Allah,” the young men replied. 


“Cavalry of Allah, mount and announce the news of Heaven (1.e. death),” ‘Umar 
b. Sa‘d called out and the people mounted and he approached (the supporters of 


318 


al-Husayn) after the afternoon (‘asr) prayer 


Meanwhile, al-Husayn, peace be on him, was sitting in front of his tent dozing 
with his head on his knees. His sister heard the clamour (from the enemy’s ranks). 
She came up to him and scid, “My brother, don’t you hear the sounds which are 
getting nearer?” 


“T have just seen the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, 
in my sleep,” said al-Husayn, peace be on him, as he raised his head. “He said to 


299 


me: ‘You are coming to us’. 


His sister struck at her face and cried out in grief. 
“You have no (reason) to lament, sister,” al-Husayn, peace be on him, told her. 
“Be quiet, may Allah have mercy on you.” 


Then he turned to al-‘Abbas b. ‘Ali: “Brother, the enemy have come, so get 
ready, but first, al-‘Abbas, you, yourself, ride out to meet them, to talk to them 
about what they have (in mind) and what appears (appropriate) to them and to 
ask about what has brought them (against us)” 


Al-‘Abbas went towards them with about twenty horsemen, among whom was 
Zuhayr b. al-Qayn. 

“How do you see (the situation)?” he asked. “What do you want?” 

“The command of the governor has arrived that we should offer you (the 
opportunity of) submitting to his authority, otherwise we (must) attack you,” 
they answered. 

“Do not hurry (to do anything) until I have gone back to Abu ‘Abd Allah (al- 
Husayn) and told him what you have said,” al-‘ Abbas requested. 


They stopped (where they were) and told him: “Go to him and inform him, and 
tell us what he says to you.” 


Al-‘Abbas went galloping back to al-Husayn, peace be on him, to give him the 
information. While his companions remained exchanging words with enemy, 
trying to test them and dissuade them from fighting against al-Husayn, peace be 
on him, (al-‘Abbas) told him what the enemy had said. 


“Go back to them,” he, peace be on him, said, “if you can, delay them until 
the morning and (persuade) them to keep from us during the evening. Then, 
perhaps, we may be able to pray to our Lord during the night to call upon Him 
and seek His forgiveness. He knows that I have always loved His formal prayer, 


319 


the recitation of His Book and (making) many invocations to Him, seeking His 
forgiveness.” 


Al-‘Abbas went back to the people, and returned (after) being with them, 
accompanied by a messenger on behalf of “Umar b. Sa‘d, who had said: “We 
will grant you a day until tomorrow. Then if you surrender, we will send you to 
our governor, ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad but if you refuse we will not leave you (any 
longer).” 


(After) he departed towards the evening al-Husayn gathered his followers around 
him. 


[‘Ali b. al-Husayn, Zayn al-‘ Abidin. reported:] 

I went near to hear what he would say to them (even though) at that time I was 
sick. I heard my father say to his followers: “I glorify Allah with the most perfect 
glorification and I praise Him in happiness and misfortune. O Allah, I praise 
You for blessing us with prophethood, teaching us the Qur’an and making us 
understand the religion. You have given us hearing, sight and hearts, and have 
made us among those who give thanks (to You). I know of no followers more 
loyal and more virtuous than my followers nor of any House more pious and 
more close-knit than my House. May Allah reward you well on my behalf. 
Indeed, I do not think that there will be (any further) days (left) to us by these 
men. I permit you to leave me. All (of you) go away with the absolution of your 
oath (to follow me), for there will be no (further) obligation on you from me. 
This is a night (whose darkness) will give cover to you. Use it as a camel (i.e. 
ride away in it).” 


His brothers and sons, the sons of his sisters and the sons of ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far 
said: “We will not leave you to make ourselves continue living after your (death). 
Allah will never see us (do) such a thing.” 


Al-‘Abbas b. ‘Alt, peace be on them, was the first of them to make this 
declaration. Then the (whole) group followed him, (all) declaring the same thing. 


“Sons of ‘Aqil,” said al-Husayn, “enough of your (family) has been killed. So go 
away as I have permitted you “ 

“Glory be to Allah.” they replied, “what would the people say? They would 
say that we deserted our Shaykh, our lord, the sons of our uncle, who was the 
best of uncles; that we had not shot arrows alongside them, we had not thrust 
spears alongside them, we had not struck swords alongside them. (At such an 
accusation) we do not know what we would do. No, by Allah, we will not 


320 


do (such a thing). Rather we will ransom you with our lives, property and 
families. We will fight for you until we reach your destination. May Allah make 
life abominable (for us) after your (death).” 


Then Muslim b. ‘Awsaja arose and spoke: “Could we leave you alone? How 
should we excuse ourselves before Allah concerning the performance of our duty 
to you? By Allah, I will stab them with my spear (until it breaks), I will strike 
them with my sword as long as the hilt is in my hand. If I have no weapon (left) 
to fight them with, I will throw stones (at them). By Allah we will never leave 
you until Allah knows that we have preserved through you (the company of His 
Apostle) in his absence. By Allah, if I knew that I would die and then be revived 
and then burnt and then revived, and then scattered, and that would be done to 
me seventy times, I would never leave you until I met my death (fighting) on 
your behalf. So how could I do it when there can only be one death, which is a 
great blessing which can never be rejected?” 


Zuhayr b. al-Qayn, may Allah have mercy on him, spoke: “By Allah, I would 
prefer to be killed and then recalled to life; and then be killed a thousand times in 
this manner; and that in this way Allah, the Mighty and Exalted, should protect 
your life and the lives of these young men of your House.” 


All his followers spoke in similar vein, one after the other. Al-Husayn, peace be 
on him, called (on Allah to) reward them well and then went back to his tent. 


[‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, reported:] 

I was sitting on that evening (before the morning of the day) in which my father 

was killed. With me was my aunt, Zaynab, who was nursing me when my father 

left to go to his tent. With him was Juwayn, the retainer (mawla@) of Abu Dharr 

al-Ghiffarl, who was preparing his sword and putting it right. My father recited: 
Time, shame on you as a friend! At the day’s dawning and the sun’s 
setting. 


How many a companion or seeker will be a corpse! Time will not be 
satisfied with any substitute. 


The matter will rest with the Mighty One, and every living creature will 
have to journey along my path. 


He repeated it twice or three times. I understood it and realised what he meant. 


Tears choked me and I pushed them back. I kept silent and knew that tribulation 
had come upon us. As for my aunt, she heard what I heard — but she is a woman 


321 


and weakness and grief are part of the qualities of women; she could not control 
herself, she jumped up, tearing at her clothes and sighing, and went to him. 


“Then I will lose (a brother),” Zaynab said to him. “Would that death deprived 
me of life today, (for) my mother, Fatima, is dead, and my father, ‘Alt and my 
brother, al-Hasan, peace be on them (all).” 

“O sister,” al-Husayn said to her as he looked at her with his eyes full of tears. 
“don’t let Satan take away your forbearance. (Remember:) If the sandgrouse are 
left (alone) at night, they will sleep (i.e. let nature take its course).” 


“O my grief, your life will be violently wrenched from you and that is more 
wounding to my heart and harsher to my soul,” she lamented, and then she struck 
at her face. She bent down to (the hem of) her garment and (began to) tear it. 
Then she fell down in a faint. 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, got up and bathed her face with water. Then he said 
to her: “Sister, fear Allah and take comfort in the consolation of Allah. Know that 
the people on the earth will die and the inhabitants of heaven will not continue 
to exist (for ever). For everything will be destroyed except the face of Allah 
Who created creation by His power (gudra); He sends forth creatures and He 
causes them to return; He is unique and alone. My grandfather was better than 
me, My father was better than me and my mother was better than me. I and every 
muslim have an ideal model in the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family.” 


By this and the like he tried to console her and he said: “Sister, I swear to you — 
and I (always) keep my oaths — that you must not tear your clothes, nor stratch 
your face, nor cry out with grief and loss when I am destroyed.” 


Then he brought her and made her sit with me. He went out to his followers and 
ordered them to bring their tents (much) closer together so that the tent pegs 
came within the area of each other’s tents, and so that if they remained among 
their tents, the enemy could only approach (them), from one side (for there would 
be) tents behind them, and to their right and left. Thus (the tents completely) 
surrounded them except for the one way which the enemy could come against 
them. 


(After that) he, peace be on him, returned to his place and spent the whole 
night in performing the prayer, and in calling on Allah’s forgiveness and in 
making invocations. In the same way, his followers performed the prayers, made 
invocations and sought Allah’s forgiveness. 


322 


[Al-Dahhak b. ‘Abd Allah reported] 

(A contingent of) ‘Umar b. Sa‘d’s (continually) passed us keeping watch over 
us while al-Husayn, himself recited: “Let not those who disbelieve think that 
our giving them a delay is better for their souls. We give them a delay only that 
they might increase their wickedness. They shall have a disgraceful punishment. 
Allah does not leave the believers in the situation you are in until He has made 
the evil distinct from the good.” (III 178-179) 


Aman called ‘Abd Allah b. Samir, (who was) among those horsemen heard that. 
He was given to much laughter, and was a brave fighter, a treacherous knight and 
a noble. He cried out : “By the Lord of the Ka‘ba. we are the good, we have been 
distinguished from you.” 

“O terrible sinner,” cried Burayr b. Hudayr. “has Allah made you one of the 
good?” 

“A curse on you, whoever you are” he shouted back. 

“T am Burayr b.Hudayr,” he replied. And they both cursed each other. 


In the morning al-Husayn, peace be on hin, mobilised his followers after the 
morning prayer. He had with him thirty-two horsemen and forty foot-soldiers. 
He put Zuhayr b. al-Qayn in charge of his right wing and Habib b. Muzahir in 
charge of his left wing, and he gave his standard to his brother, al-‘ Abbas. They 
positioned themselves with the tents al the rear. He ordered (the) firewood and 
cane which was behind the tents to be left in a ditch which had been dug there 
and to be set on fire, fearing that they would attack them from the rear. 


‘Umar b. Sa‘d began the morning of that day - it was Friday, or Saturday as 
some say - by mobilising his followers. He went out with the men with him 
towards al-Husayn, peace be on him. ‘Amr b. al-Hajjaj was in command of his 
right wing, Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan of the left Wing, ‘Urwa b. Qays was in 
command of the cavalry, Shabath b. Rib‘i of the foot-soldiers. He gave his 
standard to Durayd, his retainer (mawia). 


[‘Ali b. al-Husayn, Zayn al-‘Abidin, peace be on them, reported:] 

When the cavalry began to approach al-Husayn, he raised his hands and said: 
“O Allah, it is You in Whom I trust amid all grief. You are my hope amid all 
violence. You are my trust and provision in everything that happens to me, (no 
matter) how much the heart may seem to weaken in it, trickery may seem to 
diminish (my hope) in it, the friend may seem to desert (me) in it, and the enemy 
may seem to rejoice in it. It comes upon me through You and when I complain 
to You of it, it is because of my desire for You, You alone. You have comforted 
me in (everything) and have revealed its (significance to me). You are the Master 


323 


of all grace, the Possessor of all goodness and the Ultimate Resort of all desire.” 


When the enemy began to move around the tent of al-Husayn, peace be on him, 
they saw the ditch behind and the fire burning the firewood and cane which had 
been thrown in it. (At this) Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan called out at the top of his 
voice: “Al-Husayn, are you hurrying towards the fire (of Hell) before the Day of 
Resurrection?” 

“Who is that?” asked al-Husayn, peace be on him. “(It sounds) like Shamir b. 
Dhi al-Jawshan?” 

“Yes, (it is),” they told him. 

“Son of a goat-herdess, you are more worthy to be burnt by that.” he retorted. 


Muslim b. ‘Awsaja wanted to shoot an arrow at him, but al-Husayn, peace be on 
him, stopped him from (doing) that. “Let me shoot at him,” he asked, “for he is 
a wicked sinner, one of the enemies of Allah, and the great tyrants. (Now) Allah 
has made it possible (to kill) him.” 

“Do not shoot at him,” ordered al-Husayn, peace be on him, “for I am unwilling 
to begin (the fighting) against them.” 


Then al-Husayn called for his mount and mounted it. He called out at the top 
of his voice: “O people of Iraq,”- and most of them (began to) listen to him 
- “people, listen to my words and do not hurry (to attack me) so that I may 
remind you of the duties you have towards me and so that (by telling you the true 
circumstances) I may free myself from any blame in (your attacking me). If you 
give me justice, you will become happier through that. If you do not give me 
justice of your own accord (as individuals), then agree upon your affairs (with 
your associates); let not your affairs be in darkness toyou. Then carry (it) out 
against me and do not reflect (any further) (X 71). Indeed my guardian is Allah, 
Who created the Book; He takes care of the righteous (VII 196.)” 


Then he praised and glorified Allah, and mentioned what Allah is entitled to. He 
called for blessings on the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and on 
the angels and (other) prophets. No speaker has ever been heard before or after 
him more eloquent in his speech than he was. He continued: “Trace back my 
lineage and consider who I am. Then look back at yourselves and remonstrate 
with yourselves. Consider whether it is right for you to kill me and to violate the 
honour of my womenfolk. Am J not the son of the daughter of your Prophet, of 
his testamentary trustee (was7) and his cousin, the first of the believers in Allah 
and the man who (first) believed in what His Apostle, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, brought from his Lord? Was not Hamza, the lord of the martyrs, my 
uncle? Was not Ja‘far, the one who flies in Heaven, my uncle? Have you not 


324 


heard the words of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
conceming myself and my brother: ‘These are the two lords of the youths of 
the inhabitants of heaven?’ Whether you believe what I am saying - and it is the 
truth, for by Allah I have never told a lie since I learnt that Allah hated people 
(who told) them - or whether you regard me as a liar, there are among you those 
who, if you asked them, would tell you: Ask Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah al-Ansari, Abt 
Sa‘td al-Khudri, Sahl b. Sa‘d al-Sa‘idi, Zayd b. Arqam and Anas b. Malik to tell 
you that they heard these words from the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, concerning myself and my brother. Is there not (sufficient) in 
this to prevent you shedding my blood?” 


“Tf I understand what you are saying,” interrupted Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan, 
“then I only worship Allah (very shakily) on the edge.” 


“T think that you worship Allah (very shakily) on seventy edges,” said Habib 
b. Muzahir “For I testify that you are right. You do not understand what he is 
saying. For Allah has impressed (ignorance) upon your heart.” 


“Tf you are in any doubt about this,” al-Husayn, peace be on him, told them, “you 
are in doubt that I am the Son of the daughter of your Prophet. By Allah there is 
no son of a prophet other than me among you and among the peoples from East 
to West. Shame on you, are you seeking retribution from me for one of your dead 
whom I have killed, or for property of yours which I expropriated, or for a wound 
which I have inflicted?” 


They did not say anything to him. They he called: “Shabath b. Rib‘1, Hajjar b. 
Abjar, Qays b. al-Ash‘ath, Yazid b. al-Harith, didn’t you write: ‘The fruit has 
ripened; the dates have grown green; come to an army which has been gathered 
for you?’” 


“We don't know what you are talking about,” said Qays b. al-Ash‘ath. “Submit 
to the authority of your kinsmen (the Umayyads). They have never treated you 
with anything but what you liked. “ 


“By Allah, I will never give you my hand like a man who has been humiliated; 
nor will I flee like a slave,” said al-Husayn, peace be on him. Then he called out, 
“O Servants of Allah, / take refuge in my Lord and your Lord from your stoning 
(XLIV 20) I take refuge in my Lord and your Lord from every haughty man who 
does not believe in the Day of Reckoning (XL 27) . 


He made his mount kneel and ordered ‘Uqba b. Sim‘an to tie its reins. They 


325 


(the Kifans) began to advance towards him (al-Husayn). When al-Hurr b. Yazid 
perceived that the people were determined to fight al-Husayn, peace be on him, 
he said to ‘Umar: “Are you going to fight this man?” 

“Yes,” he replied, “it will be a terrible battle, the least part of which will be heads 
falling and severed hands flying (through the air).” 


“Haven’t you any other way of getting what you want?” 
“If the matter rested with me,” answered ‘Umar, “I would do (anything else), but 
your governor has refused (any alternative).” 


Al-Hurr went and stood apart from the people. With him was a man from his 
tribe called Qurra b. Qays. 

“Qurra, have you watered your horse, today?” he asked. 

“No.” 

“Do you want to Water it?” 


[Qurra reported (later): ] 

I thought that he (al-Hurr) was going to leave the battle, and did not want to be 
present at it but was unwilling to be seen when he (left). So I said: “I have not 
watered it and I was going to water it.” Then I left him where he was. By Allah, 
If he had told me what he was intending to do, I would have gone with him to 
al-Husayn, peace be on him. 


He (al-Hurr) began gradually to draw closer to al-Husayn. 
“What do you want, Ibn Yazid?” asked Muhajir b. Aws, but he did not answer. 
(Instead) a great shudder came over him. 


“Your behaviour is suspicious,” said Muhajir. “By Allah, I have never seen you 
act like this before. If I was asked who was the bravest of the Kiifans, I would not 
(normally) neglect (to mention) you. What is this I see in you, (today)?” 


“By Allah, I am giving my soul the choice between Heaven and the fire (of 
Hell),” answered al-Hurr. “By Allah, I will not choose anything before Heaven, 
even though I am cut to pieces and burnt” 


(With that) he whipped his horse and (galloped over) and joined al-Husayn, 
peace be on him. 


“May I be your ransom, son of the Apostle of Allah?” he said. “I was your 


companion who stopped you from returning. I accompanied you along the road 
and made you stop in this place. But I did not think that the people would refuse 


326 


to respond to what you have offered them and that they would ever come to this 
position (which they have now come to) with regard to you. By Allah, if I had 
known that they would finish up (by doing) what I am seeing (them do) to you, I 
would not have committed what I have committed against you. I repent to Allah 
for what I have done. Will you accept my repentance?” 


“Yes,” replied al-Husayn, peace be on him, “Allah will forgive you. So get 
down,” 

“You will have (no) horseman better than me, (nor), while I am on foot, any 
foot-soldier,” he said. “I will continue fighting on foot to the (bitter) end.” 

“Do so,” replied al-Husayn, peace be on him. “May Allah grant you mercy 
(though) what He has revealed to you.” 


He advanced, in front of al-Husayn, peace be on him, and called out: “People of 
Kufa, your mother(s) will be deprived of their sons and tears will come to their 
eyes. Have you summoned this righteous man (to come to you), then, when he 
has come to you, have you handed him over (to his enemies)? Did you claim that 
you would fight with your own lives for him, and then have you begun to attack 
him in order to kill him? You have laid hold of his life; you have seized his throat; 
you have encircled him on every side in order to prevent him returning to Allah’s 
broad land (i.e. the Hijaz). He has come into your hands like a prisoner who no 
longer has the power to use his own life and cannot defend it against harm. You 
have prevented him, his womenfolk, his children and his people from (getting) 
the water of the Euphrates which Jews, Christians and Majians may drink, and 
which the pigs and dogs of Sawad drink. They (al-Husayn’s family) are likely to 
die of thirst. How wickedly you have treated the offspring left by Muhammad. 
May Allah not give you water to drink on the Day of Thirst.” 


Some of the foot-soldiers attacked him by shooting arrows at him. He went and 
stood in front of al-Husayn, peace be on him. 


“Durayd.” ‘Umar b. Sa‘d called out, “bring forward your standard (for us).” 
He brought it forward. (‘Umar) put an arrow in his bow and let it fly. He said, 
“(All of you) be witnesses of who was the first to shoot.” 


The people began to shoot at each other and to come forward (for single combat). 
Yasar, retainer (mawila) of Ziyad b. Abi Sufyan, came forward (from ‘Umar's 
army). ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Umayr (al-Kalbi) came forward (from al-Husayn’s ranks) 
to meet him . 


“Who are you?” Yasar asked him, and (Ibn al-Kalbt) gave him his lineage. 


327 


“I do not know you,” (Yasar) answered. “Let Zuhayr b. al-Qayn or Habib b. 
Muzahir come out against me.” 

“Son of a prostitute, you wanted to do single combat with one of the people,” 
retorted ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Umayr (al-Kalb1). 


With that (Ibn al-Kalb1) struck him with his sword until he had quietened him. 
While he was occupied with striking against him, Salim, retainer (mawida) of 
“‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad, attacked him (Ibn al-Kalb1). Al-Husayn’s followers cried 
out (in warning): “The (other) servant is closing in on you!” (Ibn al-Kalbi) did 
not notice (Salim) until the latter was upon him. With his left arm he warded off 
Salim’s blow but the fingers of his hand were cut off. Then he turned on (Salim) 
and struck him and killed him. After (thus) killing them both, (Ibn al-Kalbt) 
came forward and recited: 

If you do not know me, I am Ibn al-Kalbi: I am a man of bitterness and 

anger, I am not a weakling in the face of disaster. 


‘Amr b. al-Hajjaj, with the Ktfans under his command, launched an attack on the 
right wing of the supporters of al-Husayn, peace be on him. When they drew near, 
the followers of al-Husayn, peace be on him, knelt down and pointed their spears 
at them. The (attackers’) horses would not come forward against the spears and 
they swung round to retreat. The followers of al-Husayn, peace be on him, began 
to shoot arrows at (the enemy), killing some of them and wounding others. 


‘Abd Allah b. Hawza, one of the Bani Tamim, approached al-Husayn’s camp 
and the people called out to him, “Where are you going, may your mother be 
deprived of you?” 

“T am (in the right) advancing to a merciful Lord and an intercessor who is 
listened to (i.e. the Prophet),” he answered. 

“Who is that?” al-Husayn, peace be on him, asked his followers. 

“Tbn Hawza al-Tamimi,” he was told. 

“O Allah, drive him into the fire!” (al-Husayn) exclaimed. With that his horse 
upset him in its stride and fell. His left leg was stuck in the stirrups and his right 
leg was free. Muslim b. ‘Awsaja attacked him and struck his right leg and cut 
it off. The horse galloped off (dragging) him (along) and his head struck every 
stone and clod of earth until he died. Allah hurried his soul to (Hell) fire. (More) 
fighting then broke out and more men were killed. 


Al-Hurr b. Yazid attacked the followers of ‘Umar b. Sa‘d and (as he did so), he 
recited the words of ‘Antara: 
With my charger’s neck and breast thrust forward I will launch myself at 
them again and again until (the beast) is clothed in blood. 


328 


Yazid b. Sufyan, from Bant al-Harith (of Tamim), came forward to meet him. 
Soon al-Hurr killed him. 


(in the meantime) Nafi‘ b. Hilal came forward, declaring: 
I am the son of Hilal. I believe in the religion of ‘Alt. 


Muzahim b. Hurayth came against him, crying, “I follow the religion of 
‘Uthman.” 

“Rather you follow the religion of Satan,” Nafi‘ replied and attacked and killed 
him. 


“You stupid fellows.” ‘Amr b. al-Hajjaj cried out to (his) men, “don’t you realise 
whom you are fighting? (These) knights of the town are people who are seeking 
death. Don’t let any of you go forward to fight them in single combat. They are 
only few and their time is running out. If you only threw stones at them, you 
would kill them (eventually).” 


“True, you’ve come to the right conclusion,” ‘Umar b Sa‘d said to him. Then 
he sent (the message) to the commanders that none of their men should fight in 
single combat. 


‘Amr b. al-Hajjaj and his men launched an attack against al-Husayn, peace be 
on him, from the direction of the Eupharates. They fought together fiercely for 
a time. Muslim b. ‘Aswaja was struck down, may Allah have mercy on him, 
(but) ‘Amr and his men withdrew. When the dust settled, (al-Husayn’s followers) 
found Muslim stretched out dying. Al-Husayn, peace he on him, walked towards 
him and he was on the point of death. 


“Muslim, may Allah have mercy on you” said (al-Husayn). “of them (the 
believers) is he who has accomplished his vow, and of them is he who waits; they 
have not changed at all” (XX XIII 23). 


Habib b. Muzahir approached and said, “Muslim, your death is hard for me to 
bear but I bring you good news of Heaven (where you are going).” 

“May Allah bring you good news too,” replied Muslim in a weak voice. 

“Even if I knew that I would follow you at this very moment. I would still like 
you to appoint me to carry out everything which concerns you.” 


Then the people came again against al-Husayn, peace be on him. Shamir b. Dhi 
al-Jawshan attacked with his left wing (and thrust at) (al-Husayn’s) left wing, but 


they stood firm against him and forced him away (with their spears). Al-Husayn, 


329 


peace be on him, and his followers were attacked on every side but the followers 
of al-Husayn fought fiercely. Then their cavalry began to attack and even though 
they were only thirty-two horsemen, they did not attack any side of the Kifan 
cavalry without putting it to flight. 


When ‘Urwa b. Qays saw that - he was in command of the Ktfan cavalry - he 
sent word to ‘Umar b. Sa‘d: “Don’t you see what my cavalry is receiving today 
from this small number (of men)? Send the foot-soldiers and archers against 
them.” 


He sent the archers against them. Al-Hurr b Yazid’s horse was lamed. He 
dismounted and began to shout: 
You have tamed my (horse) but I am the son of freedom and braver than 
a manned lion. 


He struck out against them with his sword but a great number came against him. 
Ayyub b. Musarrih and another of the Kifan horseman shared in killing him. 


The followers of al-Husayn, peace be on him, continued to fight fiercely 
against the enemy until it was midday. When al-Husayn b. Numayr — he was in 
command of the archers — perceived the steadfastness of the followers al- 
Husayn, peace be on him, he advanced against his supporters with five hundred 
archers so that they showered the followers of al-Husayn, peace be on him, with 
arrows. They continued shooting at them until they had lamed (most of) their 
horses and wounded some of their men. Then they moved against them and a 
fierce battle was fought between them for some time. Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan 
(also) attacked them with his followers but Zuhayr b. al-Qayn with ten of the 
followers of al-Husayn (counter) attacked and drove them away from the tents. 
Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan turned back against them but (some) of his men 
were killed and the rest retreated to their positions. (The number) of killed was 
apparent among the followers of al-Husayn, peace be on him, because of the 
fewness of their number while it was not so apparent among the followers of 
‘Umar b. Sa‘d because of their great number. The battle (continued to be) fought 
fiercely and desperately. The number killed and wounded among the followers 
of Abu ‘Abd Allah al-Husayn, peace be on him, continued to grow until the sun 
began to decline. Al-Husayn and his companions prayed the prayer according to 
the rite of the prayer of fear. 


Hanzala b. Sa‘d al-Shibamt advanced in front of al-Husayn, peace be on him, 
and called out “People of Ktfa, O people I fear for you the same (that happened) 
on the Day of Parties. I fear for you on the Day of Summoning. (XL 30, 32). O 


330 


people, do not kill al-Husayn for Allah will destroy you with punishment. He who 
forges a lie will be disappointed (XX 61).” 


He advanced and fought until he was killed, may Allah have mercy on him. 
After that, Shawdhab, retainer (mawld) of Shakir, went forward, (after saying): 
“Greetings, Abu ‘Abd Allah and may Allah store his mercy and blessings for 
you.” He fought until he was killed, may Allah have mercy on him. 


Then came ‘Abis b. Shabib al-Shakiri. He greeted al-Husayn, peace be on him, 
and fought until he was killed. Each man of (al-Husayn’s) followers continued 
to go forward and be killed until there only remained with al-Husayn, peace be 
on him, the members of his own House. 


His son, ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, whose mother was Layla daughter 
of Abt Murra b. ‘Urwa b. Mas‘id al-Thagafi, was (the next) to advance. He was 
one of the most handsome men of the time. On that day he was nineteen years of 
age. He attacked the enemy declaring: 
I am ‘Alt b. al-Husayn b. ‘Alt. By the House of Allah, we are those rightly 
(endowed) with the Prophet. 


By Allah, the son of a spurious son will not judge us. I will strike with my 
sword in defence of my father, 


I will strike with the blow of a Hashimt, a Qurayshi, 


He did that several times, and the Kifans were afraid to kill him. Then Murra 
b. Mungidh al-‘Abdi saw him. He said: “May the felonies of the Arabs come 
on me, if he gets past me doing the same as he has been doing, (and) if I do not 
deprive his mother of him.” 


(‘All b. al-Husayn) continued to attack the enemy as he had been doing but then 
Murra b, Munqidh came against him and stabbed him. He was struck down and 
the enemy fell upon him, cutting him with their swords. Al-Husayn, peace be 
on him, went out until he stood over him and said: “May Allah kill (the) people 
who killed you, my son. How foolhardy they are against the Merciful and in 
violating the sacredness of the family of the Apostle, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family.” 


His eyes filled with tears and he said: “There will (only) be dust on the world 
after you.” 


331 


Zaynab, the sister of al-Husayn, peace be on him, came hurrying out, crying: 
“My brother. my nephew!” 


She came up and threw herself on (her dead nephew). Al-Husayn raised her head 
and then led her back to the tent. He told his young (sons); “Carry your brother 
back.” 


They carried him and put him before the tent which they had been fighting in 
front of. (Then) one of ‘Umar b. Sa‘d’s men called ‘Amr b. Subayh shot an 
arrow at ‘Abd Allah b. Muslim b. ‘Aqil. ‘Abd Allah put his hand to guard his 
brow. The arrow struck his hand and penetrated through his brow, and riveted 
the hand to it. He was not able to move it when another man came down on him 
with a spear, thrust it into his heart, and killed him. 


‘Abd Allah b. Qutba al-Ta’I attacked ‘Awn b. ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far b. Abi Talib 
and killed him. 


‘Amir b. Nashhal al-Tamimi attacked Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far b. Abi 
Talib and killed him. 


‘Uthman b. Khalid al-Hamdani launched himself against ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 
“Aqil b. Abi Talib, and killed him. 


[Humayd b. Muslim reported: ] 

It was like that among us (i.e. many of al-Husayn’s supporters had been killed 
by ‘Umar b. Sa‘d’s army) when a young lad came out against us. His face was 
young like the first splinter of the new moon and he carried a sword. He was 
wearing a shirt and a waistcloth (izar) and a pair of sandals, one of whose 
straps was broken. ‘Umar b. Sa‘d b. Nufayl al-Azdi said to me: “Let me attack 
him.” I said; “Praise be to Allah, what do you want to do that for? Leave him. 
While even one of the family of al-Husayn remains, that will be enough to take 
vengeance on you for his (death).” But he insisted: “By Allah, let me attack 
him.” So he rushed against him and did not turn back until he had struck his head 
with his sword and split it in two. The young lad fell face downwards and he 
called out: “O uncle!” 


At this, al-Husayn, peace be on him, showed himself just like the hawk shows 
itself. He launched into attack like a raging lion and struck ‘Umar b. Sa‘d b. 
Nufayl with his sword. That man tried to fend off the blow with his arm but his 
arm was cut off from the elbow, and he gave a great shriek (of pain) which was 
(even) heard by the people in the camp. As al-Husayn, peace be on him, turned 
away from him, the cavalry of Kifa attacked in order to save him but they (only 


332 


succeeded) in trampling him to death beneath the horses’ hooves, and the dust 
rose. 


I saw al-Husayn, peace be on him, standing by the head of the young lad, 
looking at his feet and al-Husayn, peace be on him was saying: “May the people 
who have caused your death perish. For the one who will oppose them on the 
Day of Resurrection on your behalf will be your grandfather (‘All, or great- 
grandfather, i.e. the Prophet).” Then he continued: “By Allah, it is hard on your 
uncle that you called him and he did not answer you, or rather he answered but 
your cry was (too late) to help you. For by Allah, those who kill his relatives are 
many but those who help him are few.” Then he carried him in his arms. It is just 
as if (even now) I am looking at the two legs of the boy making marks (as they 
trail) on the ground. He took him and put him with his son. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, 
peace be on them both, and the other members of the household who had been 
slain. I asked about the boy and was told that he was al-Qasim b. al-Hasan b. ‘Ali 
b. Abi Talib, peace be on them. 


Then al-Husayn, peace be on him, sat in front of the tent. He brought his son. 
‘Abd Allah b. al-Husayn, peace be on him, who was (just) a baby and sat him on 
his knee. But one of the Bant Asad shot an arrow which slaughtered the child. 
Al-Husayn, peace be on him, caught the child’s blood in the palm of his hand. 
When his palm was full, he poured (the blood) on to the ground and said: “O 
Lord, if it be so that You have kept the help of Heaven from us, then let it be 
because (Your purpose) is better than (immediate help). Take vengeance on these 
people who are (such) oppressors.” Then he carried the child and laid him with 
the (other) members of his household who had been slain. 


(Just then) ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Ugba al-Ghanawi shot an arrow at Abu Bakr b. al- 
Hasan b. ‘Alt, peace be on them, and killed him. When al-‘Abbas b. ‘Alt saw the 
number of his family who had been killed, he said to his brothers on his mother’s 
side - ‘Abd Allah, Ja‘far and ‘Uthman: “My brothers through my mother, go 
forward so that I may see that you have remained true to Allah and His Apostle. 
For you have no children (to defend).” 


‘Abd Allah, may Allah have mercy on him, advanced and fought fiercely He 
exchanged blow with Hani’ b. Shabib al-Hadrami and Hani’ killed him. After 
him Ja‘far went forward and Hani’ also killed him. Khawalt b. Yazid al-Asbaht, 
may Allah curse him, went against ‘Uthman who had taken the place of his 
brother. He fired an arrow at him and brought him down. One of the Bani Darim 
attacked him (while he was down) and cut off his head. 


333 


The group then launched an attack against al-Husayn, peace he on him, and cut 
off his access to his camp. His thirst became severe, and he set off towards the 
dam, trying to reach the Euphrates. In front of him was his brother, al-‘Abbas. 
However, the cavalry of Ibn Sa‘d, may Allah curse him, blocked his route. 
Among these was a man from the Bani Darim: he said to (the cavalry): “Woe 
upon you! Prevent him from reaching the Euphrates, don’t let him get water.” 


Then al-Husayn, peace be on him, cried nut: “O Allah, I am thirsty.” The Darimt 
became angry and shot an arrow at him which lodged in his throat. Al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, pulled out the arrow and held his hand below his throat. Both 
his palms were filled with blood which he shook away, then he said: “O Allah, 
I complain to You about what is being done to the son of the daughter of Your 
Prophet.” Then he returned to his position, while his thirst had become (even 
more) severe. 


Meanwhile the people had surrounded al-‘Abbas and cut him off from (al- 
Husayn). Single-handed he began to attack them until he was killed, may Allah 
have mercy on him.The two who took part in killing him were Zayd b. Warqi al- 
Hanafi and Hakim b. al-Tufail al-Shabsi, after he had been covered with wounds 
and could not move.” 


When al-Husayn, peace be on him, came back from the dam to his tents, Shamir 
b. Dhi al-Jawshan advanced towards him with a group of his followers and 
surrounded him. The fastest of them was a man called Malik b. al-Nusayr al- 
Kindi. He cursed al-Husayn, peace be on him, and struck him on the head with 
his sword. (Al-Husayn) was wearing a cap. (The sword) went through it right 
into his head and made it bleed. The cap was filled with blood 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, said to him: “May you never eat or drink with your 
right hand! May Allah gather you (on the Day of Judgement) with those people 
who are wrong-doers.” Then he threw away the cap and called for a cloth which 
he tied around his head. Then he called for another cap, put it on and bound it 
(in place).”? 


Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan and those who were with him had withdrawn from 
him to their (earlier) positions. After a short delay they came again against him 
and surrounded him. ‘Abd Allah b. al-Hasan b. ‘Alt, peace be on them, came out 
against them, he was only a boy, not yet mature enough to leave the women. He 
rushed forward until he stood beside his uncle, al-Husayn, peace be on him. Then 


22 The account of al-‘ Abbas’ death is missing from al-Tabart. 
23 This attack and the account of the cap are also missing from al-Tabart. 


334 


Zaynab, the daughter of ‘Alt, peace be on him, came after him to stop him, and 
al-Husayn, peace be on him, told her to stop him. However he refused (to take 
any notice of her) and determinedly prevented her (from taking him away). He 
said: “By Allah, I will not leave my uncle.” 


(At this) Abjar** b. Ka‘b rushed towards al-Husayn, peace be on him. With sword 
(in hand), the young lad said to him: “Woe upon you, you son of an impure 
woman, are you trying to kill my uncle?” Abjar struck at him with his sword. The 
boy tried to fend off (the blow) with his arm. The sword cut through (his arm) to 
the skin (on the other side). There was the arm hanging (by the skin). The boy 
cried out: “O my mother!” Al-Husayn took hold of him and embraced him. He 
said to him: “My nephew, try to bear what has come to you and be comforted 
with the news that Allah will unite you with your righteous ancestors.” Then al- 
Husayn, peace be on him, raised his hand and said: “O Allah, even as You have 
made life pleasant for them for a time, divide them into factions and make them 
follow the ways of factions and let their rulers never be pleased with them. They 
summoned us so that they might support us and then they became hostile to us 
and killed us.” 


The foot-soidiers launched an attack from right and left against those who were 
left with al-Husayn, peace be on him, until only a group of three or four remained 
with him. When al-Husayn, peace be on him, saw that, he called for of pair of 
dazzling Yemeni trousers (sarawil). He tore them and put them on. He tore them 
so that he should not have been plundered after he had been killed. When al- 
Husayn, peace be on him, was killed, Abjar b. Ka‘b set on him, plundered him of 
the trousers and left him naked. After that the two hands of Abjar b. Ka‘b, may 
Allah curse him, became so dry in the summer that they were like sticks and then 
soaking wet in the winter so that they sprinkled drops of water and pus, until 
Allah destroyed him. 


When nobody except a group of three members of his family was left with 
al-Husayn, peace be on him, he moved against the people, while the three 
protected him until (all) three were killed. Al-Husayn, was left alone. Despite 
being weighed down by wounds in his head and body, he began to strike against 
them with his sword and they scattered to right and left, away from him. 


Then Humayd b. Muslim said: “By Allah, I have never seen such persistence. 
His sons have been killed, and the members of his household and his followers, 
yet he is still as brave as ever and he has not allowed his spirits to leave him. 
When the soldiers attack him, he fights back with his sword and scatters them to 


24 Bahr in al-Tabart, II, 363. 


335 


right and left of him like goats when a wolf comes upon them.” 


When Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan realised (the position), he called for the cavalry 
and they came up at the rear of the foot-soldiers. He ordered the archers to shoot 
at (al-Husayn) and they showered him with arrows until he became (quilted with 
arrows) like a hedgehog (is with spikes). 


He drew back from them and they stood facing him. His sister, Zaynab, came to 
the door of the tent and called out to ‘Umar b. Sa‘d b. Ab1 Waqqas: “Woe unto 
you, ‘Umar. Is Abt ‘Abd Allah being killed while you (stand by and) watch?” 
But ‘Umar did not answer. Then she called out: “Woe upon you (all), is there not 
a Muslim among you?” But no one answered. 


Then Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan shouted at the foot soldier and the cavalry: “Why 
are you waiting for the man? May your mothers be deprived of you!” So they 
attacked him from every side. 


Zur‘a b. Sharik struck him on the left shoulder-blade and cut into it. Another 
of them struck him on the shoulder. He fell prostate on his face. Sinan b. Anas 
al-Nakha‘T stabbed him with a spear and killed him. Khawali b. Yazid al-Asbahi 
hurried to him and bent down to cut off his head but he trembled (too much). 
Shamir* said to him: “May Allah crush your arm, why are you trembling?” Then 
Shamir bent down and decapitated him. He lifted the head (and handed it) to 
Khawali saying: “Take it to the commander ‘Umar b. Sa‘d”. 


Then they began to plunder (the body of) al-Husayn, peace be on him. Ishaq b. 
al-Hayat al-Hadrami, may Allah curse him, took his shirt. Abjar b. Ka‘b, may 
Allah curse him, took his trousers. Akhnas b. Marthad, may Allah curse him, 
took his turban. One of the Bani Darim took his sword. They plundered his 
saddle and his camel and they looted his womenfolk.”® 


[Humayd b. Muslim reported: ] 

By Allah, I did not see one of his women or daughters or the women of his 
family who did not have her clothes ripped from her back, taken away and 
removed from her forcibly. Then we came to ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them 
both. He was stretched out on a bed and he was very ill. Shamir had a group of 
foot-soldiers with him and they asked him, “Shall we kill this sick one?” I said: 
“Praise be to Allah, will boys be killed (too)? This is only a youth even though he 
is what he is.” And I went on (arguing) until I had moved them away from him. 

25 Sinan in al-Tabart, II, 366 

26 The names of the plunderers and the plundered objects are different in al-Tabart, II, 366. 


336 


Then ‘Umar b. Sa‘d arrived and the women cried out and wept in his face. He 
ordered his followers: “None of you should enter the tents of these women nor 
disturb this sick boy.” The women asked him to return what had been taken from 
them so that they could clothe themselves again. So he commanded that whoever 
had taken any of their belongings should return them to them. But by Allah, none 
of them returned anything. He then entrusted charge of the main tent and the 
tents of the women to a group (of men) who were with him. He said: “Guard (the 
women) so that none of them may leave and do not harm them.” 


After this, he returned to his tent and called out to his followers: ““Who will 
volunteer (to go) to al-Husayn and make his horse trample on (al-Husayn’s 
body)?” Ten volunteered. Of these, Ishaq b Hayyat and Akhnas b. Marthad 
trampled on (the body of) al-Husayn with their horses until they had broken 
and bruised his back. ‘Umar b. Sa‘d despatched on that day - it was the day 
of ‘Ashura’, - the head of al-Husayn, peace be on him, with Khawali b. Yazid 
al-Asbaht and Humayd b. Muslim al-Azdi, to ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad. Then he 
ordered the heads of the remainder of his followers and members of his House 
(who had been slain) to be cut off. There were seventy-two heads. He sent Shamir 
b. Dhi al-Jawshan, Qays b. Ash‘ath and ‘Amr b. al-Hajjaj with these. They 
journeyed until they brought them to Ibn Ziyad. He (‘Umar b Sa‘d) remained 
there for the rest of that day, and the next day until just after midday. Then he 
summoned the people for the journey, and set out towards Ktfa. He took with 
him the daughters and sisters of al-Husayn, peace be on him, together with ‘Ali 
b. al-Husayn, peace be on him. The latter was still sick with a dysentery and was 
almost on the point of death . 


When Ibn Sa‘d departed, some of Banti Asad, who had been staying at al- 
Ghadiriyya went to al-Husayn, peace be on him, and his followers. They 
performed the funeral prayer over them. Then they buried al-Husayn at the place 
where his tomb still is, and they buried his son ‘Alt. b. al-Husayn al-Asghar (the 
younger) at the foot of the body. They dug around the area next to the two feet of 
al-Husayn, peace be on him, for the martyrs from his House and his followers. 
They gathered them together and buried them all together. However, they buried 
al-‘ Abbas b. ‘Al, peace be on them both, in the place where he was killed, on the 
road to al-Ghadiriyya, where his tomb still is.” 


When the head of al-Husayn, peace be on him, arrived and after Ibn Sa‘d arrived 
on the next day (bringing) with him the daughters and household of al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, Ibn Ziyad sat before the people in the governor’s palace. He 
had given the people a general summons and had ordered them to be present (to 


27 These details are not given by al-Tabart. 


337 


see) the head. He put it in front of him, and he began to look at it with a smile. In 
his hand he had a cane and he began to poke at the teeth with it. 


When Zayd b. Arqam, a companion of the Prophet who was (then) an old man, 
saw him poking at the teeth with the cane, he said: “Take your cane away from 
those two lips. For, by Allah, other than Whom there is no deity, I have seen the 
lips of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, touch those 
two lips countless times” 

(with that) he began to weep. 


“Does Allah make your eyes weep?” asked Ibn Ziyad. “Or are you weeping 
because of Allah’s victory? If it was not for the fact that you are an old man who 
has become silly and your mind has left you, I would have cut off your head.” 


Zayd b. Argam stood up in front of him and went to his house. (Meanwhile) the 
family of al-Husayn, peace be on him, was brought before Ibn Ziyad. Zaynab, 
the sister of al-Husayn, peace be on him, came in the middle of the group, 
pretending not to be herself; she was wearing her dirtiest clothes. She went and 
sat in a corner of the palace and her maids crowded her. 


“Who is that woman who has gone to the side and has sat in a corner with her 
women?” Ibn Ziyad demanded but Zaynab did not answer. He repeated the 
question about her a second time. 


“This is Zaynab, daughter of Fatima, the daughter of the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless him and grant him peace,” one of her women told him. 


“Praise be to Allah Who has disgraced you, killed you and revealed the false 
nature of your claims,” said Ibn Ziyad as he came towards her. 


“Praise be to Allah Who has favoured us with His Prophet, Muhammad, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family,” answered Zaynab “and He has purified us 
completely from sin. He only disgraces the great sinner and reveals the false 
nature of the profligate. Such men are not among us, praise be to Allah” 


“How do you consider Allah has trealed your House?” asked Ibn Ziyad. 
“Allah decreed death for them and they went forward (bravely) to their resting 


places,” Zaynab replied. “Allah will gather you and us together. You will plead 
your excuses to Him and we will be your adversaries before Him.” 


338 


Ibn Ziyad became enraged and burnt with anger. 


“Governor,” intervened ‘Amr b. Hurayth, “She is only a woman and women are 
not responsible for anything that they say. Do not blame her mistakes.” 


“Allah has healed my soul from your tyranny and the rebellion of your House,” 
he said to her. 


Zaynab, peace be on her, became weak and wept. 


“By my life,” she cried out to him, “You have killed the mature ones (of my 
family); you have pierced my family; you have cut down my young branches; 
and you have pulled out my root. If this heals you, then you have been healed.” 


“By my life,” declared Ibn Ziyad, “this is a woman who makes poetry. Your 
father was a poet.” 


“What has a woman to do with poetry?” she answered. “Indeed I have (things) 
to distract me from poetry but my heart causes me to say what I am saying.” 


‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, was presented to him. 
“Who are you?” he asked. 
“T am ‘Alt b. al-Husayn,” he answered. 


“Didn’t Allah kill ‘Alt b. al-Husayn?” 

“T have a brother who is also called “Alt,” answered ‘Alt, peace be on him, “the 
people killed him.” 

“Rather Allah killed him,” affirmed Ibn Ziyad. 


“Allah receives the souls at the time of their death” (XXXIX 42). 

“How dare you answer me like that!” shouted Ibn Ziyad angrily, “and that will 
be the last of you because of (your) answer to me. Take him away and cut his 
head off!” 


Zaynab, his aunt, clung on to him, pleading: “O Ibn Ziyad. haven’t you had 
enough of our blood?” 

Then she clung on to him and said : “By Allah, I will not leave him. If you kill 
him, kill me with him.” 


Ibn Ziyad looked at her and at him, and said, “How wonderful is family 
relationship! I think she wants me to kill her with him. Leave him, for I see him 


339 


(now) for what he is.” 


He rose from his assembly to leave the palace and go to the mosque. He went 
up on the pulpit. He praised and glorified Allah, then he said: “Praise be to Allah 
Who has revealed the truth and the followers of the truth, and has given victory 
to the Commander of the faithful, Yazid, and his party, and has killed the liar who 
is the son of a liar and his Shi‘a.” 


At this ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Afif al-Azdi, who had been one of the Shi‘a of the 
Commander of the Faithful (i.e. “Alt b. Abi Talib) stood in front of him and 
shouted: “O enemy of Allah, you are the liar and your father and (the man) who 
appointed you and his father. O Ibn Murjana, you kill the sons of Prophets and 
take the place of men of truth on the pulpit.” 

“Get him for me,” ordered Ibn Ziyad. 


The soldiers seized him but he gave the battle cry of al-Azd. Seven hundred of 
them (quickly) gathered and took him away from the soldiers. 


At night Ibn Ziyad sent someone to get him out of his house. He was executed 
and crucified in al-Sabkha, may Allah have mercy on him. 


The (next) morning ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad sent the head of al-Husayn, peace 
be on him, (to Yazid) after it had been taken through all the streets and tribes of 
Kufa. 


[It is reported from Zayd b. Arqam:] 

It was brought past, it was stuck on a spear and I was in a room in my (house). 
As it was opposite me I heard it recite: “Or do you think that the Companions of 
the Cave and the inscription were among Our wonderful signs.” (XVII 9). My 
flesh shuddered and I called out. “O son of the Apostle of Allah, your head is 
miraculous, miraculous.””® 


When they had finished taking it around Kifa and had brought it back to the 
palace door, Ibn Ziyad gave it to Zahar b. Qays and he (also) gave him the heads 
of his companions. He despatched him to Yazid b. Mu‘awiya and he sent with 
him Abi Burda b. ‘Awf al-Azdi, and Tariq b. Abi Zubyan al-Azdi together with 
a group of Kiifans, to take them to Yazid b. Mu‘awiya in Damascus. 


[‘Abd Allah b. Rabi‘a al-Himyari reported: ] 
I was with Yazid b. Mu‘awiya in Damascus when Zahar b. Qays brought the 


28 This account is not in al-Tabari. 


340 


head to him. 


“Woe upon you! What is behind you? What have you got?” demanded Yazid. 
“O Commander of the faithful,” he replied, “I bring good news of Allah’s victory 
and support. Al-Husayn b. ‘Al, peace be on them, came against us with eighteen 
men of his House and sixty of his Shi‘a. We went out to meet them and we asked 
them to surrender and submit to the authority of the governor, ‘Ubayd Allah b. 
Ziyad, or to fight. They chose to fight rather than to surrender. We attacked them 
as the sun rose and surrounded them on every side. Eventually (our) swords took 
their toll of the heads of the people and they began to flee without having any 
refuge (to go to). They (tried to) take refuge from us on the (open) hills and in the 
hollows, like the doves seek refuge from a hawk. By Allah, Commander of the 
faithful, it was nothing but the slaughtering of animals for slaughter. (It was only 
the time taken by) the sleep of a man taking his siesta (before) we had come upon 
the last of them. There were their naked bodies, their blood-stained clothes their 
faces thrown in the dust. The sun burst down on them, the wind scattered (dust) 
over them; their visitors were (scavenging) eagles and vultures.” 


Yazid looked down for a time, then he raised his head and said: “I would have 
been satisfied with your obedience (to my orders) without this killing of al- 
Husayn, peace be on him. If it had been me who had accompanied him, I would 
have let him off (such a fate).” 


After ‘Ubayd Allah b. Ziyad had despatched the head of al-Husayn, he ordered 
the women and the young boys to be made ready for travelling. He ordered ‘Alt 
b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, to be chained with a chain around his neck. 
Then he despatched them, to follow the heads, with Muhaffir b. Tha‘laba al- 
‘A’idhi and Shamir b. Dhi al-Jawshan. They set out with them until they caught 
up with the people with the head. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn did not speak a word to any 
of the people who had the head on that Journey. Eventually they reached (their 
destination). When they reached the door of Yazid’s (palace), Muhaffir b. 
Tha‘laba raised his voice and shouted: “Here is Muhaffir b. Tha‘laba who has 
brought the Commander of the faithful these vile profligates.” 


‘All b. al-Husayn,” peace be on him, answered him. “What did the mother of 
Muhaffir give birth to more evil and more grievous (than him)?” 


When the heads were put in front of Yazid and among them was the head of al- 
Husayn, peace be on him, Yazid recited: 
We will split the skull of proud men (who come) against us; they were 


29 Yazid in al-Tabart, II, 376. 


341 


very disobedient and oppressive. 


Yahya b. al-Hakam, the brother of Marwan b. al-Hakam recited: 
On the bank (of the river) a great army met him who is closer in kinship 
(to Yazid) than Ibn Ziyad (is), the man with a false lineage. 


The offspring of Sumayya has acquired status, while the offspring of the 
daughter of the Apostle of Allah is (given) none. 


Yazid struck his hand against the chest of Yahya b. al-Hakam and shouted, “Be 
quiet!” 


Then he said to ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them: “Son of al-Husayn, your 
father cut (the bond of) kinship with me and showed ignorance of my rights, 
trying to deprive me of my position of authority. (Now) Allah has treated him in 
the way you have seen.” 


“No misfortune strikes the earth nor yourselves unless it has been written in a 
book before We bring it into existence; that is easy for Allah.” (LVII 22) replied 
“Alt b. al-Husayn. 


“Answer him,” Yazid urged his son, Khalid. However Khalid did not know what 
to say in reply. So Yazid answered: “Say rather: whatever misfortunes has struck 
you is because of what your hands have earned. And (Allah) forgives much” 
(XLII 30).” 


He summoned the women and the children and they were made to sit in front of 
him. What he saw was dreadful. 


“May Allah detest Ibn Murjana,” he said: “If there had been (any bond of) 
kinship between him and you, he would not have done this to you; he would not 
have sent you in this state.” 


[Fatima, daughter of al-Husayn, peace be on him, reported: ] 
When we sat before Yazid, he showed pity on us. An Ahmar of the Syrians stood 
up and said to Yazid; “Commander of the faithful, give me this one.” 


He meant me. (Then) I was a pretty young girl. I shuddered for I thought that 
that would be allowed to them. I caught hold of the skirt of my aunt Zaynab and 
she told (me) that that would not happen. She said to the Syrian: “By Allah, you 
are a liar. By Allah, you are (too) lowly born! Such a thing is not for you nor for 


342 


him (to decide).” 


“You are a liar,” Yazid cried out angrily. “That is for me (to decide). If I wish to 
do anything, I can do it.” 


“No, by Allah,” she replied, “Allah would only let you do that if you left our faith 
and professed belief in another (religion).” 


“Tt is me,” screamed Yazid, distraught with anger. “whom you are treating in this 
(way). It is your father who has left the religion, and your brother.” 


“T am led by the religion of Allah, the religion of my father and the religion of 
my brother,” she answered, “and (it is what) you are led by, and your grandfather 
and your father, if you are a Muslim.” 

“Enemy of Allah, you lie,” he shouted. 


“You are a Commander of the faithful, (yet) you vilify unjustly and you have 
become oppressive with your authority,” she answered. 


(At this) he was ashamed and became silent. 


“Give me that girl,” repeated the Syrian. 
“Be a bachelor,” Yazid said to him, “May Allah strike you dead!” 


Then he ordered the women to be lodged in a house on (the) banks (of the river). 
With them (also he sent) their brother, ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them. 
(Later) a house was set aside for them, which was attached to Yazid’s own 
house. They resided (there) for several days. (After a short time) he summoned 
al-Nu‘man b. Bashir and told him to make preparations to take these women 
back to Medina. When he was about to despatch them, he summoned ‘AI7 b. al- 
Husayn, peace be on them. He took him aside. 


“Allah curse Ibn Murjana,” he said. “If I had been with your father, he would 
never have asked me for a favour without me granting him it; I would have 
protected him from death with all my power. But Allah has decreed what you 
have seen. Write to me from Medina and everything that you need will be yours.” 


He presented clothes to him and to his family. He sent with them in the group 
(of men under the command) of Nu‘man b. Bashir, a messenger, who brought 
him (al-Nu‘man) the order to set out with them in the night; and that they should 
go in front of him but they should never be out of his sight. When they stopped, 


343 


he should go aside from them and he and his followers should separate around 
them like a group of guards over them. He should (only) keep away from them 
when any person of their group wanted to wash or perform a need, so he (or she) 
would not be ashamed. 


(The messenger) set off with them amid the group of al-Nu‘man. (Al-Nu‘man) 
continued to stay close to them along the road but he was kind to them as Yazid 


had instructed him and he looked after them until they entered Medina. 
ok 2 2 2K 


After Ibn Ziyad had despatched the head of al-Husayn, peace be on him, to 
Yazid, he went to ‘Abd al-Malik b. Abi al-Harith*® al-Sulami and told him, “Go 
to ‘Amr b. Sa‘id b. al-‘As in Medina and give him the good news of the killing 
of al-Husayn (peace be on him).” 


[‘Abd al-Malik reported: ] 

I rode my mount and went towards Medina. (On the way) one of Quraysh met 
me. 

“What is the news'?” he asked. 

“The news is for the governor, (then) you will hear it ,” I answered. 

“We belong to Allah and to Him we will return,” he said. “By Allah, al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, has been killed.” 


When I went to ‘Amr b. Sa‘id, he asked: “What is your purpose?” 

“What will please the governor.” I answered, “Al-Husayn, peace be on him, has 
been killed.” 

“Go out and announce his being killed,” he told me. 


I announced (it). I have never heard such wailing as the wailing of the Bant 

Hashim in their houses for al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, peace be on him, when they heard 

the announcement of his death. I went back (in) to ‘Amr b. Sa‘id. When he saw 

me, he smiled at me and laughed. Then he quoted a verse of ‘Amr b. Ma‘dikarib: 
The women of Banti Ziyad raised a great lament like the lamentation of 
our women mourning (after the battle) of al-Arnab. 


“This lamentation is in return for the lamentation for ‘Uthman,” ‘Amr exclaimed. 
Then he went up on the pulpit and informed the people about the killing of al- 
Husayn b. ‘Ali, and he summoned (them to obey) Yazid b. Mu‘awiya. (After 
that) he went down. 


30 Al-Harith in al-Tabart, II, 383 


344 


One of the retainers (mawali) of ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far b. Abi Talib, peace be on 
him, went to him and announced the news of the killing of his two sons and he 
said that we (all return) to Allah. 


“This is what we have through al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, peace be on them,” said Abu 
Salasil, the retainer (maw/a) of ‘Abd Allah. 


“O son of an obscene (woman),” exclaimed ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far, taking off his 
shoe (to strike him). “Are you saying this of al-Husayn, peace be on him? If I had 
been present with him, I would have preferred not to leave him and to be killed 
with him. By Allah, I would not have withheld those two from him and I take 
consolation from what befell them in that these two were struck down with my 
brother and cousin, consoling him and enduring with him.” 


He went forward to those who were sitting with him and said: “Praise be to 
Allah, Who has (made life hard for me) through the death of al-Husayn. For I did 
not console al-Husayn with my own hands, my two sons consoled him.” 


Umm Luqman, the daughter of ‘Aqil b. Abi Talib, may Allah have mercy on 
them, came out crying when she heard the news of the death of al-Husayn, peace 
be on him. With her were her sisters Umm Hani’, Ramla and Zaynab, daughters 
of ‘Aqil b. Abt Talib, may Allah have mercy on them. She wept for her 
(relatives) slain on the bank and she recited: 
What would you say if the Prophet asked you: What have you, the Last 
of the (religious) communities, done with my offspring and my family 
after my departure from them? They are prisoners and slain and have been 
stained with their own blood 


What sort of reward is this for my advice to you, that you should oppose 
me by doing evil to my blood relations? 


On the night of the day upon which ‘Amr b. Sa‘id had given the public notice of 
the killing of al-Husayn b ‘All, peace be on them, in Medina, in the middle of the 
night the Medinans heard a voice calling out. They listened to the voice but they 
did not see any person. (The voice called out:) 
O men who ignorantly killed al-Husayn, hear the news of punishment and 
chastisement: 


All the people of heaven, prophets, angels and slain, prosecute you. 
You have been cursed by the tongue of the son of David and (that) of 


345 


Moses and (that) of the master of the Gospels 


THE NAMES OF THE MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE WHO WERE KILLED WITH AL- 
HUSAYN IN THE PLAIN OF KARBALA. 


There were seventeen souls. In addition to al-Husayn b. ‘Alt, peace be on them 
both: 


1. Al-‘Abbas. 
2. ‘Abd Allah. 
3. Ja‘far. 

4. ‘Uthman. 


(These were all) sons of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on them, and 
their mother was Umm al-Banin. 


5. ‘Abd Allah. 

6. Abi Bakr. 
(Both of these were) sons of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on them 
and their mother was Layla, daughter of Mas‘id al-Thaqaft. 


7. ‘ATL. 
8. ‘Abd Allah. 
(These were) two sons of al-Husayn b. ‘Alt, peace be on them both. 


9. Al-Qasim 
10. Abii Bakr 
11. ‘Abd Allah. 
(These were) sons of al-Hasan b. ‘Alt, peace be on them. 


12. Muhammad. 

13. ‘Awn. 
(They were) two sons of ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far b. Abi Talib, may Allah be pleased 
with them all 


14. ‘Abd Allah. 
15. Ja‘ far. 
16. ‘Abd al-Rahman. 
(They were) sons of ‘Aqil b. Abt Talib, may Allah be pleased with them. 


17. Muhammad. 
(He was) the son of Abii Sa‘id b ‘Aqil b. Abt Talib, may Allah have mercy on 
them all. 


346 


These seventeen souls, all members of Bani Hashim, may Allah be pleased with 
them all, included brothers of al-Husayn, peace be on him and them, sons of his 
brother and sons of his two uncles, Ja‘far and ‘Aqil. 


They were all buried at the feet of al-Husayn, peace be on him, at the scene of 
his martyrdom. A trench was dug for them, they were all put in it, then the earth 
was flattened over them. (That is all of them) except al-‘Abbas b. ‘Ali, peace be 
on them both. He was buried at the place where he was killed, by the dam on the 
road to al-Ghadiriyya. His grave is clearly distinguishable but that is not the case 
with the graves of his brothers and his family whom we named after (him). A 
visitor may only visit their graves at the tomb of al-Husayn, peace be on him, if 
he directs his greetings to them towards the ground at the feet of al-Husayn. ‘Ali 
b. al-Husayn, peace be on them both, is among their number; it is said that he is 
the one of them who is buried nearest to al-Husayn, peace be on him. 


The followers of al-Husayn, peace be on him and the mercy of Allah be on 
them, who were killed with him, were buried nearby. We are not able to find out 
accurate details about (the whereabouts of) their corpses. However, we have no 
doubt that that ground covers them, may Allah be pleased with them, make them 
happy and let them dwell in the Gardens of Paradise. 


A SAMPLE OF THE OUTSTANDING VIRTUES OF AL-HUSAYN B. ‘ALI, PEACE 
BE ON HIM, THE MERIT IN VisiTING (His GRAVE) AND MENTION OF HIs 
TRAGEDY 


[Sa‘id b. Rashid reported on the authority of Ya‘la b. Murra, who said:] 

I heard the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, say: “Husayn 
is from me and I am from Husayn. Allah loves whoever loves him. Husayn is 
indeed an (outstanding) grandson among grandsons.””! 


[Ibn Laht‘a reported on the authority of Abu ‘Awana (with an interrupted chain 
of authorities) (rafa‘ahu) back to the Prophet, may Allah bless him and his 
family:] 

The Apostle of Allah said: “Al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be on them, are 
the ornaments of the throne (of Heaven). Indeed Heaven, itself, said, ‘O my 
Lord, You have filled me with weak and poor inhabitants.’ Allah, the Exalted, 
replied to it: ‘Are you not content that I have adorned your corners with al-Hasan 
and al-Husayn, peace be on them?’ Then it swaggered as a bride swaggers with 
happiness.” 


31 cf. al-Baladhurt, Ansab al-ashraf, U1, 142 


347 


[‘Abd Allah b. Maymin al-Qaddah reported on the authority of Ja‘far b. 
Muhammad al-Sadiq, peace be on them, who said:] 

Al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be on them, were wrestling in front of the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 


“Hasan, catch hold of Husayn,” said the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family. 


“Apostle of Allah, are you encouraging the big one against the little one?” said 
Fatima, peace be on her. 


“Tt is Gabriel, peace be on him, who is saying to al-Husayn: Husayn, catch hold 
of al-Hasan,” replied the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 


[Ibrahim b. al-Rafi‘t reported on the authority of his father, on the authority of 
his grandfather, who said:] 

I saw al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be on them, walking to the pilgrimage. 
They did not pass a rider who did not dismount and walk too. It became arduous 
for some of them. They said to Sa‘d b. Abt Waqqas: “Walking is arduous for us. 
We would prefer to ride but these two young lords (sayyid) are walking.” 


“Aba: Muhammad,” said Sa‘d to al-Hasan, peace be on him, “walking is hard 
on a group of those with you. Yet the people cannot make themselves feel better 
by riding when they see you two walking. If you rode, (it would be easier for 
them).” 


“We will not ride,” replied al-Hasan, peace be on him. “We have pledged 
ourselves to walk to the Sacred House of Allah on our feet. However, we will 
turn aside from the road.” 

They both went aside from the people. 


[Al-Awza‘I has reported on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. Shaddad, on the 
authority of Umm al-Fadl, daughter of al-Harith:] 

She visited the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family and said: 
“Apostle of Allah, I have had a strange dream during the night.” 

“What was it?” he asked. 


“Tt was terrible,” she said. 
“What was it?” he repeated. 


“IT saw (something) like a piece of your body cut up and put in my lap,” she 
answered. 


348 


“You have seen well,” said the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family. “Fatima will give birth to a boy when she is sitting on your lap (to give 
birth).” 


[She reported:] Fatima did give birth to al-Husayn, peace be on him, and he was 
in my lap just as the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, had 
said. One day I took him to the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
and I put him in his lap. His gaze turned away from me. Behold, both the eyes 
of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, were flowing with 
tears. I said: “(May I ransom you) with my father and mother, Apostle of Allah, 
what is the matter with you?” 


“Gabriel, peace be on him, came to me,” he said. “He told me that my 
community will seek to kill this son of mine and he brought me dust made red 
by his (blood).’”? 


[Simak reported on the authority of Ibn al-Mukhariq on the authority of Umm 
Salama, may Allah be pleased with her, who said:] 

One day while the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was 
sitting down, and al-Husayn was sitting on his knee, his eyes suddenly filled with 
tears. I said to him: “Apostle of Allah, why do I see you weeping, may I be your 
ransom? 


“Gabriel, peace be on him, came to me,” he said. “He consoled me for the death 
of my son, al-Husayn, and he told me that a group of my community will kill 
him. May Allah never let them have infercession from me.”* 


[It is reported with another chain of authorities on the authority of Umm Salama, 
may Allah be pleased with her, that she said:] 

One evening the Apostle of Allah left us and was away for a long time. He came 
back, he was dishevelled and dusty and his hand was holding (something). I said 
to him: “Apostle of Allah, why do I see you dishevelled and dusty?” 


He said: “I have just been on a night journey to a place in Iraq called Karbala’. 
There I saw the death of my son, al-Husayn, and a group of my children and the 
members of my family (ahi al-bayt). I could not stop (myself) from gathenng 
(some of) their blood and here it is in my hand.” 

He opened his hand and said: “Take it and look after it.” 


I took it. It was like red soil. I put it in a phial, fastened its top and kept it. When 


32 cf. Ibn al-A‘tham, IV, (Hyderabad, 1971), 211-2. 
33 cf. Ibn al-A‘tham, IV, 213. 


349 


al-Husayn, peace be on him, left Mecca on his way to Iraq, I look out that phial 
every day and night. I used to smell it and look at it. Then I would weep for his 
fate. On the 10th of (the month of) al-Muharram, the day on which al-Husayn, 
peace be on him, was killed, I took it out. At the beginning of the day it was in its 
usual condition, but at the end of the day, behold, it was fresh blood. I shrieked 
(with grief) and wept. Then I restrained my anger out of fear that the enemies (of 
the family of the Prophet) in Medina would hear and would hurry to rejoice at 
their misfortune. I have kept it secret up to the present time, even to the day when 
the messenger bringing the news of his death came to announce it. Then what I 
had seen was proved. 


It is reported that one day the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, was 
sitting down. Around him were ‘Alt, Fatima, al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be 
on them. He asked them: “How would you feel If when you were killed, your 
tombs were scattered around (the country)?” 

“Will we die an (ordinary) death or will we be killed?” al-Husayn, peace be on 
him, asked. 


“Rather you will be killed unjustly, my little son, and your brother will be killed 
unjustly,” he answered. “Your offsprihg will be scattered over the land.” 


“Apostle of Allah, who will kill us?” asked al-Husayn, peace be on him. 
“The evil men among the people.” he said. 


“Will anyone visit (our graves) after we are killed?” he asked. 

“Yes, my little son,” he told him. “a group (ta ‘ifa) of my community will 
gain my benificence and favour through visiting (your graves). On the Day of 
Resurrection, I will bring them to the place so that I may take them by the arms 
and save them from its terrors and sorrows.” 


[‘Abd Allah b. Sharik al-‘Amiri reported:] 

I heard the followers of ‘All say when ‘Umar b. Sa‘d went through the gate of 
the mosque: “There is the killer of al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, peace be on him.” That was 
some time before he was killed. 


[Salim b. Abi Hafsa reported: ] 
‘Umar b. Sa‘d said to al-Husayn: “Abi ‘Abd Allah, stupid people have come to 
me claiming that I will kill you.” 


“They are not stupid,” al-Husayn, peace be on him, told him. “They are men who 
34 cf. Ibn al-A‘tham, IV, 212-4. 


350 


dream (of the future). Yet it pleases me that you will not enjoy the land of Iraq 
for long after me.” 


[Yusuf b. ‘Abida reported: I heard Muhammad b. Strin say:] 
Such a redness which was in the sky was never seen except after the killing of 
al-Husayn b. ‘Alt, peace be on him. 


[Sa‘d al-Iskaf reported: Abt Ja‘far, peace be on him, said:] 

The killer of Yahya b. Zakariyya (John the Baptist) was a son born out of 
wedlock. The killer of al-Husayn b. ‘Ali was a son born out of wedlock. The sky 
only went red for those two. 


[Sufyan b. ‘Uyayna reported on the authority of ‘Ali b. Zayd, on the authority of 
“Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, who said:] 

We set out with al-Husayn, peace be on him. We did not stop at any halting-place 
without him setting off from there by (first) mentioning Yahya b. Zakariyya and 
his death. He would say: “There was a day - and it was a day of the humiliation 
of the world before Allah - when the head of Yahya b. Zakariyya was given to 
one of the prostitutes of the Bant Isra’il.” 


Reports have already been presented (which show) that none of the killers of 
al-Husayn, peace be on him, and his followers, may Allah be pleased with them, 
managed to avoid being killed or suffering tribulation in such a way as put them 


to shame before their death. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, came to his death on Saturday, the 10th of (the 
month of) al-Muharram in the year 61 A.H. after the (time for) the mid-day 
prayer. (He was) killed wrongfully, while thirsty, always showing fortitude but 
forced to be detained, as we have already explained. His age on that day was 
fifty-eight years. Of these, he spent seven with his grandfather, the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, thirty-seven with his father, the 
Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and forty-seven with his brother, 
al-Hasan, peace be on him. The period of his succession (to the Imamate) after 
his brother was eleven years. He, peace be on him, used to use henna and a black 
dye (katam). When he, peace be on him, was killed, the dye came off (the beard 


on) his two cheeks. 
ok 2 2 2K 


Many reports have come down about the great merit (to be acquired) by 
visiting his (grave), indeed of it being necessary for everyone who accepts 
the Imamate of al-Husayn, peace be on him, (as being bestowed on him) by 


351 


Allah, the Mighty and High. 


It is reported from al-Sadiq Ja‘far b Muhammad, peace be on him, that he 
said: “Visiting the grave of al-Husayn, peace be on him, is equal to a hundred 
acceptable pilgrimages and a hundred acceptable lesser pilgrimages (‘umra).” 


The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “Whoever 
visits the grave of al- Husayn, peace be on him, after the latter’s death, will have 
heaven (as his reward).” 


Reports of this kind are numerous and we have given sufficient detail of them in 


our book Mandasik al-mazar “The rites of Visitations” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


THE CHILDREN OF AL-HUSAYN B. ‘ALI, PEACE BE ON THEM 


Al-Husayn, peace be on him, had six children: 

1. ‘Altb. al-Husayn al-Akbar (the elder). 
His kunya was Abi Muhammad and his mother was Shahzanan, daughter of 
Choesroe Yazdigard. 


2. ‘Alb. al-Husayn al-Asghar (the younger). 
He was killed with his father on the banks (of the Euphrates) as has already been 
mentioned earlier. His mother was Layla daughter of Abi Murra b. ‘Urwa b. 
Mas‘tid al-Thagafi. 


3. Ja‘far b. al-Husayn, peace be on him. 
He had no survivors. His mother was a woman of (the tribe of) Quda‘a and he 
died during the lifetime of al-Husayn. 


4. ‘Abd Allah b. al-Husayn. 
He was killed while still a baby child with his father. An arrow came, while he 
was in his father’s arms, and killed him. Mention of that has already come earlier 
also. 


5. Sukayna, daughter of al-Husayn, peace be on him. 
Her mother was Rabab, daughter of Imru’ al-Qays b. ‘Adi of Kalb of Ma‘d. 
She was also the mother of ‘Abd Allah b. al- Husayn, peace be on him. 


6. Fatima, daughter of al-Husayn, peace be on him. 
Her mother was Umm Ishaq, daughter of Talha b. ‘Ubayd Allah of Taym. 


352

[[p 29]]
CHAPTER III 


IMAM ‘ALI B. AL-HUSAYN 


(This is) an account of the Imam after al-Husayn b. “Alt, peace be on them, the 
date of his birth, the evidence for his Imamate, the age he reached, (together 
with) the period of his succession, the time and cause of his death, the place of 
his grave, the number of his children and a selection from the reports about him. 


The Imam after al-Husayn b. ‘Alt, peace be on them, was his son, Abu 
Muhammed ‘Ali b al-Husayn Zayn al-‘Abidin, peace be on them. He also had 
the kunya Abi al-Hasan. 


His mother was Shahzanan daughter of Yazdigard b. Shahriyar b. Choesroe. Her 
name was also said to be Shahrbanawayh. The Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, had appointed Hurayth b. Jabir al-Hanafi over part of the eastern 
provinces. The latter had sent to him two daughters of Yazdigard b. Shahriyar b. 
Choesroe. Of these he had given his son al-Husayn, peace be on him, Shahzanan 
and she bore him Zayn al-‘Abidin (‘Alf b al-Husayn), peace be on him. He 
had given the other to Muhammad b. Abi Bakr and she bore him al-Qasim b. 
Muhammad b. Abi Bakr, so that these two (Zayn al-‘ Abidin and al-Qasim) were 
maternal cousins. 


‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them, was born in Medina in the year 38 A.H. 
(658/9). He lived with his grandfather, the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, for two years, with his uncle, al-Hasan, peace be on him, for twelve 
years, and with his father, al-Husayn, peace be on him, for twenty-three years. 
After his father, he lived a further thirty-four years and he died in Medina in the 
year 95 A.H. (713/4). At that time he was fifty-seven years of age. His Imamate 
was for thirty-four years. He was buried in al-Baqi‘ with his uncle, al-Hasan b. 
“Ali, peace be on them. 


His Imamate was confirmed in several ways. One of these was that he was the 
most meritorious (afdal) of the creatures of Allah, the Most High, after his father 
in traditional knowledge (‘i/m) and practice (‘amal). The Imamate belongs to 
the most meritorious (afda/) to the exclusion of the less meritorious (mafdil) by 
rational proofs. Among these there was the fact that he was more appropriate for 
authority by virtue of his father, al-Husayn, peace be on him, and more entitled 
to his position after him through his merit and lineage. The one who was entitled 
through the last Imam has more right to his position than anyone else through 


353 


the evidence of the verse of next of kin (dhii al-arham) and the (Qur’anic) story 
of Zacharia, peace be on him.! 


Another of (the facts which confirms his Imamate) is the necessity according 
to reason of the Imamate existing in every age. The claim of every (other) 
claimant to the Imamate during the time of ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, 
was invalid and the impossibility of there being any time without an Imam is 
confirmed by him (being the Imam). Another (of the facts which confirms his 
Imamate) is the fact that the Imamate is established in the offspring ( ‘“tra) (of the 
family of ‘Ali) exclusively by rational deduction and by a report on the authority 
of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. Invalidity of the arguments 
of those who claim it for Muhammad b. al Hanafiyya,* may Allah be pleased 
with him, through him (also) belonging to the offspring is established by the 
absence of the designation of it to him. Therefore it is established that it belongs 
to ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them, since there was no claim for it for any 
other member of the offspring (of the family) except Muhammad, may Allah be 
pleased with him; his exclusion from it was on account of what we have already 
mentioned. 


Another (of the facts which confirmed his Imamate) was the designation 
of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, of him for the 
Imamate, in the tradition which is related concerning the tablet (Jawh) which 
Jabir reported on the authority of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family. Muhammad b. ‘Alt al-Bagir, peace be on them, (also) related it on 
the authority of his father, on the authority of his grandfather, on the authority of 
Fatima, daughter of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 


His grandfather, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, designated 
him during the life-time of his father, al-Husayn, peace be on him, according 
to the reports which include that. The testamentary bequests (wasiya) (were 
made) by his father, al-Husayn b. “Ali, peace be on him, and they were deposited 
with Umm Salama for him. He received them when his father died. His father 
made the request (for these) from Umm Salama, the sign of the Imamate of 
the one who should request them among men.’ This part may be known by the 


1 The verse of dhi al-arham refers to Qur’4n XXX, 6. The relevant part reads. those who have a 
relationship of kinship (uli al-arham) are more entitled (to inherit) from one another according 
to the Book of God than the believers and the Emigrants. On the story of Zacharia. cf. Qur’an 
Ill, 37-41 and XIX, 2-11. The story stresses the idea of succession through the family. 

2 In particular the Imamate of Muhammad b. al Hanafiyya was maintained by al-Mukhtar b. 

Abt ‘Ubayd, who led a revolt in Kifa on his behalf. 
3 cf. al-Kafi, I, 304, tradition no. 3, but other traditions in al-Kafi suggest that these things were in 
the hands of Fatima, his daughter, cf. al-Kaft, I, 363-4. 


354 


examination of the reports and we do not intend in this book to speak about its 
significance for we will study it thoroughly separately. 


A Brier SuRVEY OF THE Reports ABOUT ‘ALI B AL-HUSAYN, PEACE BE ON 
THEM. 


[Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad b. Yahya informed me: my 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan) told us: Idris b. Muhammad b. Yahya b. ‘Abd 
Allah b. Hasan b. Hasan, ‘Ahmad b. ‘Abd Allah b. Musa, and Isma‘1l b. Ya‘qub, 
all told me: ‘Abd Allah b. Musa told us on the authority of his father (Musa b. 
‘Abd Allah), on the authority of his grandfather (‘Abd Allah b. al-Hasan), who 
said:] 

My mother, Fatima, daughter of al-Husayn, peace be on him, used to tell me to 
sit with my maternal uncle, ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them. I never sat with 
him without rising with some good which I had derived from him, whether it was 
fear of Allah which occurred in my heart when I realised (what) fear of Allah 
(was) or some traditional knowledge (‘i/m) which I acquired from him. 


[Abu Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad al-‘Alawi informed me on the 
authority of his grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan), on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Maymin al-Bazzaz, who said: Sufyan b. ‘Uyayna informed us on the 
authority of Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri, who said:] 

‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them, who was the best Hashimi we ever met, 
said: “Love us, for it is love for Islam. May your love for us never cease even if 
it becomes a public disgrace.” 


[Abi Mu‘ammar reported on the authority of ‘Abd al-‘Aziz Abu Hazim who 
said:] 

I heard my father say: “I have never seen a Hashimi more meritorious (afdal) 
than ‘AIT b al-Husayn.” 


[Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad b. Yahya informed me: my grandfa- 
ther (Yahya b. al-Hasan) told me Abi Muhammad al-Ansari told me: Muhammad 
b. Maymitin al-Bazzaz told me: al-Hasan b. ‘Alwan told us on the authority of 
Abi ‘Ali Ziyad b. Rustum, on the authority of Sa‘Id b. Kulthtm who said:] 

I was with al-Sadiq Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them. He mentioned the 
Commander of the Faithful, ‘Ali b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, and praised and 
extolled him with (praise) which he was worthy of. Then he said: “O Allah, ‘Ali 
b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, never ate anything forbidden in this world until 
he passed along his (final) road. Two alternatives were never presented to him, 
when Allah would be pleased with both, without him taking the more religious of 


355 


them. No dispute occurred about the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family, without him being summoned as a reliable authority. No one else 
of this community was able to do the work of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family; for if he enjoined (such a) man (as ‘Alt) to work, 
his position would be between Heaven and Hell, hoping for the reward of the 
former and fearing the punishment of the latter. He freed a thousand slaves with 
his own money in his desire to seek the face of Allah and to escape the fire of 
Hell, (money) which he had laboured for with his own hands and for which his 
own brow had sweated, even though it had been to provide his family with oil, 
vinegar and dates. He did not have (many) clothes except white cotton fabrics 
since when there was any sleeve left over his arm, he called for scissors and cut 
it off. 


None of ‘Alt’s children or his family was more like him and nearer to him in 
manner of dress and understanding than ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them. 
(One day) his son, Abt Ja‘far, (Muhammad al-Baqir), peace be on them, came 
to him. He had carried out in worship what no one had ever carried out. He saw 
that his colour had gone yellow from weeping all night; his eyes had used up all 
their water from being awake all night; his forehead was bruised and his nose 
squashed from prostrating; and his legs and feet were swollen from standing in 
prayer. 


Abi Ja‘far, peace be on him, reported: “I could not control myself from weeping 
when I saw him in that state and I wept, may Allah have mercy on him. Behold, 
he was thinking and he turned to me a short time after I had come and said: 
‘My son, give me some of those parchments in which there is the (practice of) 
worship of ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him’.” 


“T gave them to him and he read something from them for a while. Then he 
let them go from his hand in exasperation and said: ‘Who is strong enough to 
perform the worship of ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him?” 


[Muhammad b. al-Husayn reported: ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad al-Qurashi told 
us:] 

When ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them, used to perform ritual ablutions, his 
skin would turn yellow, 

“What is it that has afflicted you?” his family asked him. 

“Don’t you know Whom you are preparing to stand before?” he asked 


[‘Amr b. Shamir reported on the authority of Jabir al-Ju‘fi, on the authority of 
Abt Ja‘far, peace be on him:] 


356 


‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them, used to pray a thousand rak ‘as during the 
day and the night. The wind would bend (his body) forward like an ear of corn. 


[Sufyan al-Thawri reported on the authority of ‘Ubayd Allah b. ‘Abd al-Rahman 
b. Mawhib:] 

The great merit (fad/) of ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them, was mentioned to 
him but he replied: “It is sufficient for us that I should be one of the righteous 
members of our people” 


[Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed us on the authority of his 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan), on the authority of Salama b. Shabib, on the 
authority of ‘Ubayd Allah b. Muhammad al-Taymi who said: I heard a shaykh 
from (the tribe of) ‘Abd al-Qays say: Tawus said: ] 
I (i.e. Tawus) went into the Aijr one night and there was ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace 
be on them. He had come in and was standing praying. He prayed as Allah had 
wished then he prostrated. I asked a righteous man from the family of goodness 
whether I might listen to his prayer. 
I heard him saying during his prostration: 

Your little servant is at Your courtyard; 

Your miserable one is at Your courtyard: 

Your poor one is at Your courtyard; 

Your beggar is at Your courtyard. 


(Tawus added:) I have never prayed with these words at any tribulation without 
me being freed from it. 


[Abia Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed us on the authority of his 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan), on the authority of Ahmad b. Muhammad al- 
Rafi‘l, on the authority of Ibrahim b. ‘AIj, on the authority of his father (‘Ali b. 
Abt Rafi‘), who said:) 

I (i.e. ‘Ali b. Abi Rafi‘) made the pilgrimage with ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on 
them. The camel carrying him was moving slowly. He pointed toward it with his 
stick and then said: “Woe if there was no retaliation (in the next world)!” And he 
moved his hand away from it. 


[With this chain of authorities: ] 
‘All b al-Husayn, peace be on them, made the pilgrimage on foot and he took 


twenty days to travel from Medina to Mecca. 


[Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: my grandfather (Yahya 
b. al-Hasan) told us: ‘Ammar b. Aban told us: ‘Abd Allah b. Bukayr told us on 


357 


the authority of Zurara b. A‘yan who said that:] 

He (Zurara b. A‘yan) heard a voice calling in the middle of the night: ““Where are 
those who abstain with regard to this world out of desire for the next?” A voice 
called out in answer from the region (of the cemetery) of al-Baqi‘ - he heard its 
voice without seeing the person - “Such a man is ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on 
them.” 


[‘Abd al-Razzaq reported on the authority of Ma‘mar on the authority of al- 
Zuhri, who said:] 
I have never seen any of that House, meaning the House of the Prophet, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, more meritorious (afdal) than ‘Ali b al-Husayn, 
peace be on them. 


[Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: my grandfather (Yahya 
b. al-Hasan) told me: Abi Yunus Muhammad b. Ahmad told us: my father and 
another of our companions told me:] 

A young man from Quraysh was sitting in an assembly with Sa‘id b. al- 
Musayyib and saw ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them. 


“Who is that, Abt Muhammad?” the Qurashi asked Sa‘id b. al-Musayyib. 
“That is the lord of worshippers (‘abidin), ‘Ali b al-Husayn b. ‘Ali b. Abt Talib, 
peace be on them,” he answered. 


[Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: my grandfather (Yahya 
b. al-Hasan) told me: Muhammad b. Ja‘far and others told me:] 

Aman from his House stood in front of ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them, and 
made him listen to him and cursed him. However, he did not reply. When (the 
man) had gone away, he said to those who were sitting with him: “You heard 
what that man said? I want you to come with me so that you may hear from me 
my reply to him.” 

“We will do that,” they replied, “we wanted you to answer him while we were 
speaking (together),” 


He took his shoes and went, while reciting: Those who restrain their anger, and 
those who forgive the people, Allah loves those who do good. (II 134). 


Then we knew that he would not say anything to him. 


He went along until he came to the house of that man who had screamed at him. 
“This is ‘Alt b al-Husayn,” they told him, 


He came rushing out towards us with evil intent. He had no doubt that (‘Ali b al- 


358 


Husayn) had come to him to repay him for some of the evil which he had given 
him. 


“Brother,” said ‘Ali b al-Husayn, “you were standing proudly over me and you 
said this and that. If you have said what is (really) in my (character), I seek 
Allah’s forgiveness for it. If you have said what is not in my character, may Allah 
forgive you”, 

The man kissed him between the eyes and replied: “Yes, I said what was not in 
your character, may I be worthy of it (i.e. Allah’s forgiveness)”. 


[The narrator of the account added:] The man was al-Hasan b. al-Hasan, may 
Allah be pleased with him. 


[Al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of his grandfather (Yahya 
b. al-Hasan) who said: A Shaykh from Yemen, who was some ninety years old, 
told me: A man called ‘Ubayd Allah b. Muhammad informed me: I heard ‘Abd 
al-Razzaq say:] 

A maid-servant of ‘Ali b al-Husayn began to pour water for him so that he might 
perform the ritual ablutions for prayer. The maidservant became faint and the jug 
dropped from her hand and struck him. He raised his head towards her and the 
maidservant said to him: “Allah, the Most High, says: Those who restrain their 
anger.” 

“T have restrained my anger.” he replied. 


“And those who forgive the people.” she went on. 
“May Allah forgive you,” he said. 


“Allah loves those who do good.” she said. 
“Go, you are a free woman before the face of Allah, the Mighty and High,” he 
answered. 


[Al-Waqidi reported: ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad b. ‘Umar b. ‘Ali, peace be on 
him, told me:] 

Hisham b. Isma‘il used to harm our neighbourhood. ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be 
on them, received severe hardship from him. When he was dismissed, al-Walid 
ordered that he should be made to stand before the people. ‘Ali b al-Husayn, 
peace be on them, walked past him and greeted him. ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be 
on them, had come especially so that no one should harm him. 


It is reported that ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them, called his slave twice and 
the latter did not answer him. At the third time, he answered. 


359 


“Didn't you hear my voice?” asked (‘Ali b al-Husayn). 
“Yes,” was the reply. 


“What was on your mind so that you did not answer me?” he asked. 
“T was safe (from any harm) from you,” he answered. 


“Praise be to Allah,” he said, “Who has caused my slave to be safe (from any 
harm) from me.” 


[Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad b. Yahya informed me: my 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan) told me: Ya‘qub b. Yazid told us: Ibn 
Abi ‘Umayr told us on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. al-Mughira, on the 
authority of Abi Ja‘far al-A‘sha, on the authority of Abu Hamza al-Thumali, on 
the authority of ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them, who said:] 

I (i.e. ‘Ali b al-Husayn) went out until I came to that wall and leaned against it. 
There was a man wearing two white garments who was looking at me directly in 
the face. Then he said: ““‘Alt b al-Husayn, why do I see you sorrowful and sad? 
Is your sorrow on account of the world, since Allah provides for both the pious 
and the profligate?” 

“T am not sad on account of that, though it is as you say.” I replied. 


“Ts it on account of the next world, for it is a true promise that there conquering 
angels will give judgement?” he asked. 
“T am not sad on account of that, though it is as you say,” I answered. 


“Then why are you sad?” he asked. 
“T am fearful of the discord (caused) by Ibn al-Zubayr,” I replied. 


He laughed and said: “‘Ali b al-Husayn, have you ever seen anyone who trusted 
in Allah and Allah was not sufficient for him?” 
“No,” I replied. 


“All b al-Husayn,” he said, “have you ever seen anyone who feared Allah 
without Allah saving him?” 

“No,” I replied. 

““ All b al-Husayn.” he asked, “have you ever seen anyone ask (for something) of 
Allah without Allah giving it to him?” 

“No,” I replied. Then I looked and suddenly there was no one there. 


[Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: my grandfather 


360 


(Yahya b. al-Hasan) told us: Abi Nasr told us: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Salih told us: 
Yunus b. Bukayr told us on the authority of Ibn Ishaq, who said:] 

There was in Medina such and such a family. Their provisions used to come to 
them without them asking for them. They did not know from where they came 
to them. However, when ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them, died, they stopped 
(receiving) those. 


[Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: my grandfather (Yahya 
b. al-Hasan) told me: Abi Nasr told us: Muhammad b. ‘Altb. ‘Abd Allah told us: 
my father told me: ‘Abd Allah b. Hariin told us: ‘Umar b. Dinar told me:] 
Death was close to Zayd b. Usama b. Zayd and he began to weep. “What makes 
you weep?” asked ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them. 


“What makes me weep,” he said, “is the fact that I owe fifteen thousand dinars 
and I have not left anything to fulfil the debt for them.” 

“Do not weep,” ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them, told him, “they are my debt 
now and you are free of them.” So he paid them for him. 


[Hartin b. Misa reported: ‘Abd al-Malik b. ‘Abd al-‘Azil told us:] 
When ‘Abd al-Malik b. Marwan succeeded to the caliphate, he returned the 
(proportion of) taxes (sadaqat) given to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, to ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them, and also (the 
proportion of) taxes (sadaqdt) given to ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him. They 
were both written down (in the diwdn as going to ‘Alt b al-Husayn). ‘Umar b. 
“Ali went to ‘Abd al-Malik and complained to him on behalf of himself. ‘Abd 
al-Malik replied, “I can only use the words of Ibn Abi al-Huqayq: 
Indeed when claims of desire are put forward, the listener listens to the 
speaker. 


The people wrestle with their hearts but we are judging with a just and 
decisive judgement. 


We do not make the false true, nor do we deny the true in favour of the 
false. 


We fear that we would make our minds foolish and we would spend (our) 
time with those without repute. 


[Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: my grandfather (Yahya 
b. al-Hasan) told me: Abu Ja‘ far Muhammad b. Isma‘1l told us:] 


‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them, made the pilgrimage and the people were 


361 


shouting about his comely disposition and looking at him. They began to 
question each other: “Who is that? Who is that?” 


(They were doing this) in magnification of him and in exaltation of his rank. Al- 
Farazdaq was there and he composed the following, saying: 
This is he whose ability the valley (of Mecca) recognises, and whom the 
(Sacred) House recognises (as do) the sanctuary and the area outside the 
sanctuary (al-hill). 


This is the son of the best of all Allah’s servants This is the pure pious 
man, the pure eminent man. 


When he comes to touch the corner of the wall of the Ka‘ba, it almost 
grasps the palm of his hand. 


He takes care to be modest and he is protected from his terror. He only 
speaks when he smiles. 


None of mankind has within their souls such primacy as he does nor such 
grace as he does. 


Whoever knows Allah, knows his friend (walz). Religion is from the 
House of this man. 


When Quraysh saw him, their spokesmen told of the outstanding qualities 
of this man which indicate (his) nobility. 


[Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: my grandfather (Yahya 
b. al-Hasan) who said: Dawud b. al-Qasim told us: Al-Husayn b. Zayd told us 
on the authority of his uncle, ‘Umar b. ‘Aj, on the authority of his father ‘Alt b 
al-Husayn, peace be on them:] 

(‘All b al-Husayn) used to say; “I have never seen similar preference (given to) 
a prayer (than this prayer). The worshipper will never pray without an answer 
coming to him on every occasion.” 


It was one of the prayers learned from him, peace be on him, when it was learned 
that Musrif b. ‘Uqba* was heading towards Medina. 
My Lord, however much favour You have bestowed upon me, my thanks 
to You for it have been little. However much testing You have given me, 


4 Musrif b. ‘Uqba is Muslim b. ‘Uqba, who attacked Medina and Mecca for Yazid against Ibn al- 
Zubayr. He was nicknamed Musrif which means “one who acts outrageously.” 


362 


my endurance in the face of it has been little. O He who receives little 
thanks from me for His favour, let Him not deprive me. O He Who 
receives little endurance from me when He tests me, let Him not desert 
me. O Possessor of unceasing kindness! O Possessor of incalculable 
favours, bless Muhammad and the family of Muhammad; ward off the evil 
(of man) from me so that I may find protection through You amid (man’s) 
slaughter. I seek refuge with You from (man’s) evil. 


Musrif b. ‘Uqba came to Medina. It was said that he did not have any hostility 
towards ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them. He greeted him, honoured him, was 
generous to him and gave gifts to him. 


The account from another source is that when Musrif b. ‘Uqba came to Medina, 
he sent for ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them. The latter went to him. When 
he came to him, he honoured him and said: “The Commander of the faithful 
(i.e. Yazid) has enjoined me to show goodness and generosity towards you, to 
distinguish you from the others.” 


So he treated him very well. Then he said to those who were around him: 
“Saddle my mule for him.”* Then he said to him: “Go to your family. I see that 
we have filled them with fear when we made you come to us. If that with which 
we might increase your gift according to your right, were in our hands, we would 
give it to you.” 


“Do not apologise for the ruler (amir) to me,” said ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on 
them and rode away. 


“That is the best of men,” said Musrif to those who were sitting with him. “There 
is no evil in him because of his position and rank from the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family.” 


The account has been reported that one day ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on 
them, was in the mosque of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and his 
family, when he heard some people describing Allah in terms of His creation. 
He became fearful and frightened of that. He rose and went to the tomb of the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He stood before it and 
raised his voice to talk to his Lord. He said in his conversation to Him: 

My Allah. Your power has been shown but the form of Your Majesty has 

not been shown. They are ignorant of You and they try to estimate You 

on the basis of what You are not, and they make comparisons with You. 


5 ef. al-Tabari, II, 420-1. 


363 


O my Allah, I renounce those who seek to discover You through human 
comparisons. My Allah, there is nothing like You, and they have not 
become aware of You. It is clear that the favour which they have is 
their evidence for You, if they would (choose to) know You in Your 
creation, My Allah, I am free from the fact that they should give You 
(these characteristics). Indeed they have pictured You according to Your 
creation. Thus they do not know You and have adopted some of Your signs 
as (if they were their) Lord. In that way they have attempted to describe 
You. May You be exalted, O my Allah, above the pictures of You of those 
who try to describe You in human terms. 


This has been a sample of the accounts which are given about the virtues of Zayn 
al-‘ Abidin, peace be on him. 


Non-Shr‘a (‘Gmma) jurists report countless traditions in the religious sciences on 
his authority. Sermons, prayers, (details of) the merits of the Qur’an, accounts 
of the laws of what is permitted and forbidden, and the raids (maghazi) and 
battles (avyyam) (during the time of the Prophet) have been recorded on his 
authority. He was famous among the religious scholars. If we attempted to give a 
full explanation of that, the book would be greatly lengthened by it and we would 
spend too much time on it. The Shi‘a have reported his signs, miracles and clear 
proofs, which this place is not big enough to include mention of. The presence 
(of these reports) in their books which they have compiled may compensate for 
not putting them in this book. Allah is He Who grants success to what 1s correct. 


An Account of the Children of ‘All b al-Husayn, Peace be on them 


Fifteen children were born to ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them. 

1. Muhammad. 
His kunya was Abi Ja‘far al-Baqir and his mother was Umm ‘Abd Allah, the 
daughter of al-Hasan b. ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him. 


2. ‘Abd Allah 
3. Al-Hasan 
4. Al-Husayn 
Their mother was a slave-wife (umm walad). 
5. Zayd 
6. ‘Umar 


(Both were born) from a slave-wife. 


364 


7. Al-Husayn the younger (al-asghar) 
8. ‘Abd al-Rahman 
9. Sulayman 
Their mother was a slave-wife (umm walad). 


10. ‘Ali 

He was the youngest of the children of ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them. 
11. Khadija 

The mother of both of these was a slave-wife. 


12. Muhammad the younger 
His mother was a slave-wife. 


13. Fatima 
14. ‘Altyya 
15. Umm Kulthim 
Their mother was a slave-wife. 


365

[[p 30]]
CHAPTER IV 


IMAM MUHAMMAD B. ‘ALI AL-BAQIR 


(This chapter will give) an account of the Imam after ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be 
on them, the date of his birth, the evidence for his Imamate, the age he reached, 
the period of his succession, the time and cause of his death, the place of his 
grave, the number of his children, and a summary of the reports about him. 


Al-Bagir Muhammad b. ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them, was out of (all) 
his brothers the successor of his father, ‘Ali b al-Husayn, his testamentary 
trustee (wasi), and the one who undertook (qd ‘im) the office of Imam after him. 
He surpassed all of them through his outstanding merit (fad/) in traditional 
knowledge (‘i/m), asceticism and leadership. He was the most renowned of 
them, the one among them who was most esteemed by both non-Shi‘a ( ‘@mma) 
and Shi‘a (khdssa), and the most able of them. None of the sons of al-Hasan 
and al-Husayn, peace be on them, showed the same ability in knowledge of 
religion, traditions, the sunna, the knowledge of the Qur’an and the life of the 
Prophet (sira), and the techniques of literature, as Abu Ja‘far (Muhammad 
al-Baqir) showed. The surviving companions (of the Prophet), the leading 
members of the next generation (‘abi ‘an) and the leaders of the Muslim jurists 
reported the principal features (ma ‘alim) of religion on his authority. By virtue 
of his outstanding merit he became a signpost (of knowledge) to his family. 
Proverbs were coined about him and reports and verses were written to describe 
him. 


Concerning him al-Qurazi says: 
O (you) who split open (Baqir) knowledge (making it available) to the 
people of piety and the best of those who seek to answer the call of the 
Exalted. 


Malik b. A‘yan al-Juhnt said in praise of him, peace be on him: 
When the people seek for knowledge of the Qur’an, Quraysh rely upon 


him. 


If someone asked where is the son of the daughter of the Prophet, you 
would gain through him the wide branches (of knowledge): 


(You are like) stars which shine for night-travellers, (you are) like 
mountains which have inherited vast knowledge. 


366 


He, peace be on him, was born in Medina, in 57 A.H. (676/7). He died in 
114 A.H. (732) at the age of fifty-seven. He was a (leading) member of the 
Hashimite family within the Hashimites. He was a (leading) descendant of ‘Ali 
among the descendants of ‘Ali. He was buried in (the cemetery of) al-Baqi‘ in 
(Medina) the city of the Apostle, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 


[Maymiin al-Qaddah reported on the authority of Ja‘far b. Muhammad, on the 
authority of his father, peace be on them:] 

I (i.e. al-Baqir) visited Ja‘far b. ‘Abd Allah al-Ansari, may Allah be pleased with 
him. I greeted him and he returned my greeting. Then he said to me. “who are 
you?” - That was after he had lost his sight. 

“Muhammad b. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them,” I answered. 


“My young child, come close to me,” he said. I went closer and he kissed my 
hand. Then he stooped down to my foot and kissed that. I turned away from him. 
Then he said to me: “The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
recites his greeting to you:' 


“Peace and Allah’s mercy and blessings be on the Apostle of Allah.” I said. “How 
is that, Jabir?”’ 

He told me: “One day I was with him when he said to me: ‘Jabir, perhaps you 
will live until you meet one of my descendants called Muhammad b. ‘Ali b. al- 
Husayn, peace be on them, on whom Allah will bestow light and wisdom. Then 
recite to him my greetings.’””! 


In the testamentary bequest (wasiyya) which the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him, made to his children, mention was made of Muhammad b. 
‘Ali b. al-Husayn and of his trusteeship. The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
him and his famly, named him and caused him to be known as the one who split 
open (religious) knowledge ( ‘u/iim) as the narrators of tradition (ashab al-athar) 
report.” 


Thus it is reported on the authority of Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah in a direct (mujarrad) 
tradition: The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said to me: 
“Tt will happen that you will live until you meet one of my children descended 
from al-Husayn, peace be on him, called Muhammad, who will spilt wide open 
knowledge of religion. When you meet him, recite my greeting to him.” 


The Shi‘a give an account of the tablet which Gabriel, peace be on him, brought 


1 A similar tradition is reported with a different isnad in al-Kafi; cf. al-Kafi, 1, 304, tradition no. 4. 
2 cf. al-Kafi, 1, 469-470, tradition no. 2. 


367 


down to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, from heaven. 
(The Apostle) gave it to Fatima, peace be on her. In it are the names of the Imams 
after (the Apostle) and in it is Muhammad b. ‘Ali, the Imam after his father.* 


The Shi‘a also reported that Allah, the Mighty and High, sent down to His 
Prophet, the blessings and peace of Allah be on him, a document sealed with 
twelve seals. He ordered him to give it to the Commander of the Faithful, peace 
be on him, and to tell him to break the first seal, and he should act according to 
what is in (that part of the document). At the time of his death, he should pass it 
to his son, al-Hasan, peace be on him, and tell him to break the second seal and 
act according to what is in (that part of) the document. At the time of his death 
he should pass it to his brother al-Husayn, peace be on him. He should tell him 
to break the third seal and act according to what is below it. Then at his death, 
he should pass it to his son, ‘Ali b al-Husayn al-Akbar (the elder) and he should 
instruct him in a similar way. Then Muhammad should pass it to his son right 
down to the last of the Imams. 


They report also numerous designations (nusiis) of him for the Imamate after his 
father on the authority of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, on 
the authority of the Commander of the Faithful and on the authority of al-Hasan, 
al-Husayn and ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them. 


The people report (accounts) of his outstanding virtues and accomplishments 
which would be too numerous to include. We will mention what will be 
sufficient in meaning for our purposes, if Allah wills. 


[Al-Shartf Abu Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: My 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan) told me: Muhammad b. al-Qasim al-Shaybani 
told us: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Salih al-Azdi told us on the authority of Abt: Malik 
al-Juhni on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Ata’ al-Makki who said:] 

I have never seen the scholars with anyone so much younger than them as I 
saw them with Abu Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them. I 
have seen al-Hakam b. ‘Utayba, despite his eminence among the people, conduct 
himself before him as if he was a young boy conducting himself before his 


teacher. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


Whenever Jabir b. Yazid al-Ju‘fi reported anything on his authority, peace be 
on him, he used to say: “The trustee of the trustees (of the Apostle) and the heir 
of the knowledge of the prophets, Muhammad b. ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on 


3 cf. al-Kafi, 1, 527-8. tradition no. 3. 


368 


them, told me.” 


[Makhul b. Ibrahim reported on the authority of Qays b. al-Rabi‘, who said: I 
asked Abii Ishaq al-Sabi‘I about rubbing the two shoes (in the ritual ablution), 
he said:] 

I used to tell people to rub the two shoes (in the ritual ablution instead of rubbing 
the feet) until I met a man from the Banu Hashim, whose like I have never seen 
- Muhammad b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace be on him. I asked about the rubbing 
and he forbade me to do it. He said: ““The Commander of the Faithful, peace be 
on him, never used to rub (the shoes). He used to say: ‘The Book (which does not 
mention the practice) comes before (the introduction of the practice of) rubbing 
the shoes.’” 


[Abu Ishaq added : I have never rubbed them since he forbade me to do it. And 
Qays b. al-Rabi‘ said: I have never rubbed them since I heard Abu Ishaq. ] 


[Al-Shartf Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: My 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan) told me on the authority of Ya‘qutb b. Yazid, 
who said: Muhammad b. Abi ‘Umayr told us on the authority of ‘Abd al-Rahman 
b. al-Hajjaj, on the authority of Aba ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be on 
him, who said:] 

Muhammad b. Munkadir used to say: “I did not use to think that the like of 
‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, could leave a successor because of the 
outstanding merit of ‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them, until I saw his son, 
Muhammad b. ‘Alt. I wanted to advise him but he advised me.” 


My companions asked me: “What did he warn you of?” I told them: I went out to 
one of the suburbs of Medina at a time when it was hot. There I met Muhammad 
b. ‘All, peace be on him. He was a well built man and he was leaning on two 
servant boys. Either they were black slaves of his or they were retainers of his. 
I said to myself: Here is a venerable leader (shaykh) of Quraysh out at this time 
and in these circumstances seeking worldly (advantage). I must warn him. So I 
approached him and greeted him. He returned my greeting with anger. The sweat 
was pouring down him. 


I said: “May Allah remove you, a venerable leader of Quraysh, out at this time in 
these circumstances seeking worldly (advantage). If death came upon you while 


you were in this condition (what would you do)?” 


He made the two servant-boys let go of his hand and held himself up. Then he 
said: “By Allah, if death came upon me while I was in this condition, it would 


369 


come upon me while I am (fulfilling) an act of obedience to Allah, by which I 
make myself withdraw from you and from the (rest of the) people. I would only 
fear death if it came upon me while I was performing an act of disobedience 
against Allah.” 


Then I replied: “May Allah have mercy on you, I wanted to warn you and you 
have warned me.” 


[Al-Shartf Abt. Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: My 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan) told me A shaykh from the people of al-Rayy, 
who was very old, told me: Yahya b ‘Abd al-Hamid al-Himmant told me on the 
authority of Mu‘awiya b. ‘Ammar al-Duhnt, on the authority of Muhammad b. 
‘Alt b al-Husayn, peace be on them:] 

(Muhammad b. ‘Ali was asked) about Allah’s words: Ask the people of 
remembrance (ahl al-dhikr) if you do not know (XVI 43). 

He said: “We are the people of remembrance (ahl al-dhikr).” 


The shaykh from al-Rayy said: I asked Muhammad b. Muqatil about these 
(words). He spoke about them according to his opinion and he said: “The people 
of remembrance (ahl al-dhikr) are all the religious scholars (‘ulama’).” 


I mentioned that to Abt Zur‘a. He was astounded at his words. Then I put before 
him what Yahya b ‘Abd al-Hamid had told me. He said: “Muhammad b. ‘AIt, 
peace be on them, speaks the truth. They are the people of remembrance (aAl al- 
dhikr). By my life, Abt Ja‘far, peace be on him, is one of the greatest scholars 


(‘ulama’).” 
OK 2 2k 2K 


Abi Ja‘far, peace be on him, recounted reports of the beginnings of history 
(mubtada’) and reports of the prophets. Stories of the campaigns of the Prophet 
(maghazi) were written on his authority. (Men) followed the practices of the 
Prophet (swnan) on his authority and relied on him with regard to the rites of the 
pilgrimage which he reported on the authority of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. They (also) wrote a commentary of the Qur’an on his 
authority. Both the Shi‘a (khassa) and the non-Shi‘a (‘amma) report traditions 
on his authority. He debated with the exponents of individual reasoning (ah/ al- 


ara’) and the people learnt a great deal of theology ( ‘“/m al-kalam) from him. 
OK 2 2 2K 


[Al-Shartf Abt. Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: My 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan) told me: Al-Zubayr b. Abi Bakr told me: ‘Abd 


370 


al-Rahman b. ‘Abd Allah al-Zuhri told me.] 

Hisham b ‘Abd al-Malik made the pilgrimage. He went into the Sacred Mosque 
leaning on the arm of Salim, his retainer. Muhammad b. ‘Alib. al-Husayn, peace 
be on them, was sitting in the mosque. 


“Commander of the faithful,” Salim said to (Hisham). “there is Muhammad b. 
‘Alt b. al-Husayn” 

“The man for whom the people of Iraq are ready to revolt?” he asked. 

“Yes,” replied (Salim). 

“Go to him,” (Hisham) told him, “and say to him: The Commander of the 
faithful (i.e. Hisham) asks you: What is it that the people eat and drink until Allah 
has finished judging them on the Day of Resurrection?” 


Abt Ja‘far Muhammad, peace be on him, replied: “The people will gather 
on (earth which will be) like a loaf of pure bread. There, there will be rivers 
branching out. They will eat and drink until the account (with Allah) is settled.” 


Hisham realised that (Abu Ja‘far Muhammad) had overcome him. So he said: 
“Allah is greater. Go to him and say to him: (Hisham) says to you: What will 
keep men away from food and drink on that day?” 


“Those in the fire of Hell will be too occupied,” replied Abt Ja‘far, peace be on 
him, “but they will say to those who have not been distracted from it: Bestow 
upon us water and some of what Allah has provided for you (VU 50).” 


Hisham fell silent and did not reply. 
ok 2 2k 2K 


Reports have come down that Nafi‘ b. al-Azraq* came to Muhammad b. ‘Ali, 
peace be on them, and sat before him to ask him questions about what was 
permitted and what forbidden. Abt Ja‘far, peace be on him, said in the course 
of his answer: “Say to these deviators (from the true course): How did you 
make separation from the Commander of the Faithful (‘Alt), peace be on him, 
lawful when you had earlier shed your own blood on his behalf and in obedience 
to him and (you were then close) to Allah through helping him? Then they will 
answer you: He allowed arbitration with regard to the religion of Allah. Say to 
them: Allah, the Exalted, allowed arbitration in the law (shari‘a) of His Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, between two of His creatures. For He said: 


4 Nafi‘ b. al-Azraq, a prominent Kharijite, was killed in 65 A.H., so this discussion would have to 


take place when Muhammad al-Baqir was only eight. The discussion concerns the reasons for 
the Kharijite revolt after the Battle of Siffin. 


371 


Send an arbitrator from his family and an arbitrator from her family if they want 
reconciliation (to take place) between them with the agreement of Allah (IV 35). 
The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, appointed Sa‘d b. 
Mu‘adh as an arbitrator over the tribe of Qurayza. He judged them according 
to what Allah had accomplished. Did you not know that the Commander of the 
Faithful, peace be on him, ordered the arbitrators only to judge according to 
the Qur’an and not to go beyond it? He stipulated the rejection of any of the 
laws of men which opposed the Qur’an. They said to him: ‘You have appointed 
as arbitrator over yourself, men who will judge you.’ He replied: ‘I have not 
appointed a creature as an arbitrator. I have only made the Book of Allah an 
arbitrator’. Therefore where do the deviators find the wrong-doing in the matter 
of arbitration by the Qur’an, when he stipulated the rejection of whatever 
opposed it, unless they are persisting in a false accusation?” 


“By Allah”, said Nafi‘ b. al-Azraq, “these are words which I have never heard 


before and which have never occurred to my mind. It is the truth, Allah willing.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


The scholars report that ‘Amr b. ‘Ubayd came to visit Muhammad b. ‘Ali b. al- 
Husayn, peace be on them, to test him with questions. He said: “May I be your 
ransom, what is the meaning of the words of Him, the Exalted: Do not those who 
disbelieve realise that the heavens and the earth were ratq and we made them 
fitq? (XXI 30) What is this ratg and this fitq?” 


“The heaven was ratg (means) that no rain came down from it,” answered Abt 
Ja‘far, peace be on him. “‘and the earth was ratg (means) that no plants came out 
of it.” 


‘Amr stopped. He could not find any opposition. He went away but then came 
back. 

“May I be your ransom,” he said, “tell me of the words of Him, the Mighty and 
High: On whomsoever My anger alights, he falls (to disaster) (XX 81). What is 
the anger of Allah. the Mighty and High?” 


“The anger of Allah, ‘Amr, is His punishment,” replied Abt Ja‘far, peace be on 


him. “Whoever thinks that anything changes Allah, is an unbeliever.” 
28 2K OK 


In addition to what we have described of his merit in knowledge ( ‘“/m), headship 
and leadership and the Imamate, there was the obvious excellence (of the man) 
to both the Shi‘a (khassa) and the non-Shi‘a (‘amma). He was recognised by 


372 


all for his nobleness and well-known for generosity and kindness through the 
abundance of his help to the poor and his moderate temperament. 


[Al-Shartf Abt’ Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: My 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan) told me: Abu Nasr told us: Muhammad b. al- 
Husayn told me: Aswad b. ‘Amir told us: Hayyan b. ‘Ali told us on the authority 
of al-Hasan b. Kuthayyir, who said:) 

I (i.e. al-Hasan b. Kuthayyir) complained to Abi Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘AIT, 
peace be on them, of (my) need and the uselessness of brothers. 

“Shame on the brother,” he said, “(who is) a brother who looks after you when 
you are rich and separates from you when you are poor.” 


Then he ordered his servant-boy to take out a pouch in which were seven 
hundred dirhams. 
“Spend this,” he told me, “and when you have used it, tell me.” 


[Muhammad b. al-Husayn reported: ‘Abd Allah b. al-Zubayr told us: They told 
us on the authority of ‘Amr b. Dimar and ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Ubayd b. ‘Umayr, who 
said:] 

We (i.e., ‘Amr b. Dinar and ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Ubayd) never met Aba Ja‘far 
Muhammad b. ‘Ali, peace be on them, without him giving us money, gifts and 
clothes. He used to say: “This is something which had been prepared for you 
before you met me.” 


[Abt Nu‘aym al-Nakha‘T reported on the authority of Mu‘awiya b. Hisham on 
the authority of Sulayman b. Qarm, who said:] 

Abt Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘All, peace be on them, used to pay us five hundred 
dirhams to six hundred dirhams to a thousand dirhams as gifts. He never tired of 
bestowing generosity on the brethren, and on those who came to visit him, and 
on those who placed their hopes and trust in him. 


It is reported on his authority, on the authority of his fathers, peace be on them, 
that the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, used to say: “The 
best of works are three: Looking after brothers with money, giving the people 
justice on your own account; and mentioning Allah in every circumstance.” 


[Ishaq b. Mansur al-Salili reported: I heard al-Hasan b. Salih say:] 

I (al-Hasan b. Salih) heard Abi Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘Ali peace be on them, say: 
“There is not anything that can be mixed with anything better than clemency 
(mixed) with knowledge.” 


373 


It is reported on his authority, peace be on him, that he was asked about traditions 
which he put forward and did not support with a chain of authorities. He said: 
“Tf I report a tradition without giving it a chain of authorities, then my chain of 
authorities for it is in fact my father on the authority of my grandfather on the 
authority of his father, on the authority of his grandfather, the Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, on the authority of Gabriel, peace be on 
him, on the authority of Allah, the Mighty and High.”° 


He, peace be on him, (also) used to say: “The people cause us great trouble. We 
summon them but they do not answer us. If we abandoned them, they would be 
guided by no one.” 


He, peace be on him, used to say: “What is it that the people hate in us who 
are the family of the House of Mercy, the Tree of Prophethood, the Source of 
Wisdom, (the people) frequented by angels and (those upon whom) inspiration 
descended?” 


He, peace be on him, died and left behind seven sons. Each of his brothers had 
great merit, even though they did not attain his merit because of his position with 
regard to the Imamate, because of his rank with Allah with regard to closeness 
and love (wilaya), and because of his position with regard to succession (khilGfa) 
of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. The period of his Imamate 
and of his undertaking the position of his father in the succession (on behalf of) 
Allah, the Mighty and High, over His servants was nineteen years. 


AN ACCOUNT OF His BROTHERS AND AN EXTRACT FROM THE REPORTS ABOUT 
THEM 


‘Abd Allah b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, the brother of Abi Ja‘far 
Muhammad, peace be on him, was in charge of the endowments (sadaqdat) of 
the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and the endowments 
(sadaqat) of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. He was a man of 
merit and a jurist. He reported many traditions on the authority of his fathers, on 
the authority of the Apostle of Allah. The people told traditions on his authority 
and also gave historical reports (athar) on his authority. 


Among these is: 

[Ibrahim b. Muhammad b. Dawud b. ‘Abd Allah al-Ja‘farl reported on the 
authority of ‘Abd al-‘Aziz b. Muhammad al-Darawardi, on the authority of 
‘Umara b. Ghuzayya, on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace 
5 A similar tradition is reponed in al-KGfi, I , 53, tradition no. 14, on the authority of Ja‘far al-Sadiq 


374 


be on them:] 

He (‘Abd Allah b. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn) said: The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, said: “The meanest of men is one whom when my name 
is mentioned by him is unwilling to ask for Allah’s blessing on myself and my 
family.” 


[Zayd b. al-Hasan b. ‘Isa reported: Abi Bakr b. Abi Uways told us on the 
authority of ‘Abd Allah b. Sim‘an, who said: I met ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Ali b. al- 
Husayn, peace be on them, and he told me on the authority of his father, on the 
authority of his grandfather, on the authority of the Commander of the Faithful, 
peace be on him:] 

(The Commander of the Faithful) used to have the right hand of the thief cut off 
for the first theft. If he stole again, he would have his left leg cut off. If he stole 


a third time, he would put him in prison for life. 
28 2K OK 


‘Umar b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, was a man of merit and of 
high-standing. He was in charge of the endowments (sadaqat) of the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and the endowments (sadaqdat) 
of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. He was pious and Allah- 
fearing. 


[Dawud b. al-Qasim has reported: Al-Husayn b. Zayd said :] 

I (Husayn b. Zayd) saw my uncle, ‘Umar b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, 
stipulate to those who wanted to buy (produce from) the endowments of ‘Ali 
that if they made a hole in such and such a wall, he would not stop anyone from 
entering it to take it from there. 


[Al-Shartf Abi Muhammad informed me: My grandfather told me: Abu al- 
Hasan Bakkar b. Ahmad al-Azdi told us: Al-Hasan b. al-Husayn al-‘Urani told 
us on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. Jarir al-Qattan, who said:] 

I (Abd Allah b. Jarir al-Qattan) heard ‘Umar b. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be 
on them, say: “The one who is excessive in his love for us is like the one who 
is excessive in his hatred of us. We have a right (to authority) through our 
relationship with our Prophet, blessing and peace be on him. It is a right which 
Allah has given us. Therefore whoever abandons it, abandons (something which 
is) great. Grant us the position which Allah has granted us. Do not say things 
about us which do not exist concerning us. If Allah punished us, then it would 
be for our sins. If Allah has mercy on us, then it is because of His mercy and 


favour.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


375 


Zayd b. ‘Ali b al-Husayn, peace be on them, was the outstanding brother after 
Abt Ja‘far, peace be on him, and the one with the most merit. He was a devout 
worshipper, pious, a jurist, Allah-fearing and brave. He came out in revolt with 
the sword to enjoin the good and forbid the evil and to demand vengeance for 
al-Husayn, peace be on him. 


[Al-Shartf Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: My 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan) informed him on the authority of al-Hasan b. 
Yahya, who said: Al-Hasan b. al-Husayn told us on the authority of Yahya b. 
Musawir, on the authority of Abi al-Jariid Ziyad b. al-Mundhir, who said:] 

I (Abi al-Jartid) went to Medina. When I began to ask about Zayd b. ‘Alt, peace 
be on him, I was told: “That man is an ally of the Qur’an,” 


[Hisham b. Hisham reported:] 

I (Hisham) asked Khalid b. Safwan about Zayd b. ‘Alt, peace be on him, when 
(Khalid) was reporting traditions on his authority. 

“Where did you meet him?” J asked. 

“At al-Rusafa.” he answered. 


“What kind of man was he?” I asked. 
“(He was) just as you have been told.” he said. “He would weep out of fear of 
Allah until his tears became mixed with his running nose.” 


Many of the Shi‘a believed in his Imamate. The reason for their belief was 
because of his coming out (in revolt) with the sword calling on support for the 
one who is acceptable from the family of Muhammad, may Allah bless Him and 
His Family. Therefore they thought that he intended that for himself. However 
that was not his intention because he knew of the right of his brother, peace be 
on him, to the Imamate before him, and of his bequest of trusteeship (wasiyvya) at 
his death to Abt ‘Abd Allah (i.e. Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be on him. 


The reason for Abi al-Hasan Zayd b. ‘Ali, may Allah be pleased with him, 
coming out (to revolt) is also more than his determination which we have already 
mentioned, to seek (vengeance) for the blood of al-Husayn, peace be on him. He 
had visited Hisham b. ‘Abd al-Malik. Hisham had gathered the Syrians for him 
and ordered them to press around him in the assembly so that it was not possible 
for him to come close to him. Zayd said to him: “None of the servants of Allah 
are above being warned to show fear towards Allah, nor can any of them be 
excluded from showing fear towards Allah. I am warning you to show fear 
towards Allah, Commander of the faithful (i.e. Hisham). So show fear towards 
Him,” 


376 


“You are the one who thinks yourself entitled to the caliphate,” Hisham replied 
to him. “and (you are) the one who hopes for it. But that is not for you. You have 
no mother. (At least) your mother was only a servant-girl.” 


“T do not know anyone greater in rank with Allah than a prophet whom He has 
sent,” retorted Zayd, “(Yet such a prophet) was the son of a servant-girl. So 
if he had been unable to carry out His purpose, He would not have sent him. 
(That prophet) was Isma‘il b. Ibrahim (Ishmael, son of Abraham), peace be on 
them. Prophethood is greater in rank with Allah than the mother of the caliphate, 
Hisham. Furthermore, a man should not be ignored whose father is the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and who is the son of ‘Ali b. Abi 
Talib, peace be on him.” 


Hisham jumped up from his assembly. He summoned his servant and said: “Don't 
let this man spend the night in my camp” 


Zayd left saying that he would never have forced anyone to take up the sword if 
they had not humiliated him. When he arrived at Kufa, its inhabitants gathered 
around him and they soon pledged allegiance to fight on his behalf. Then they 
broke their pledge to him and handed him over. He, may Allah have mercy on 
him, was killed and his body (was left) hanging on a cross among them for four 
years. None of them denounced it, nor did they help him with hand or tongue. 


When he was killed, the full report of that was sent to Abu ‘Abd Allah al-Sadiq, 
peace be on him. He was very sad when it became clear to him (what had 
happened). He set apart a thousand dinars of his own money for the families of 
those of (Zayd’s) followers who were killed with him. 


That is reported by Abt Khalid al-Wasiti. He said: Abi ‘Abd Allah, peace be on 
him, handed me a thousand dinars and told me to divide it among the families of 
those killed with Zayd. Four dinars of this reached the family of ‘Abd Allah b. 
al-Zubayr, the brother of Fuday] al-Rassan. 


His death was on Monday on the 2nd of (the month) of Safar in the year 120 A.H. 


At that time he was forty-two years of age. 
OK 2 2 2 


Al-Husayn b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, was a man of merit and 
pious. He reported many traditions on the authority of his father ‘Ali b. al- 
Husayn, peace be on them, and his aunt Fatima, daughter of al-Husayn, peace be 
on him, and his brother, Abt Ja‘far, peace be on him. 


377 


[Ahmad b. ‘Isa reported: My father told us:] 

I (‘Isa) used to see al-Husayn b. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, pray. I 
would say: “He will not put down his hand until his prayer for all creatures is 
answered.” 


[Harb b. al-Tahhan reported: Sa‘id, the follower of al-Hasan b. Salih, told me:] 
I (Sa‘id) never saw anyone with greater fear (of Allah) than al-Hasan b. Salih 
until I went to Medina and saw al-Husayn b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace be on 
them. I have never seen greater fear (of Allah) than his. (It is) as if he had been 
taken into the fire (of Hell) and then taken out of it because of the intensity of 
his fear. 


[Yahya b. Sulayman b. al-Husayn reported on the authority of his uncle, Ibrahim 
b. al-Husayn, on the authority of his father, al-Husayn b. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace 
be on them, who said:] 

Ibrahim b. Hisham al-Makhziimi was a governor of Medina. He used to gather 
us (the family of the Prophet) every Friday near the pulpit. Then he would 
attack ‘All, peace be on him, and curse him. One day I (Al-Husayn b. ‘Ali b. 
al-Husayn) was present. The place was very full so I was close to the pulpit. I 
dozed off and saw (in a dream) that the grave had opened and out of it had come 
a man ina white cloak. He said to me: “O Abu ‘Abd Allah (i.e. al-Husayn b. ‘Ali 
b. al-Husayn), does not what this man is saying make you sad?” 

“By Allah, yes,” I replied. 

“Open your eyes,” he told me, “and see what Allah is doing with him.” 


Behold, as he mentioned (the name) ‘Ali, he was thrown from the pulpit and 
died, may, Allah curse him. 


AN ACCOUNT OF THE CHILDREN OF ABU JA‘FAR MUHAMMAD B. ‘ALI, PEACE 
BE ON HIM, THEIR NUMBER AND THEIR NAMES. 


We have mentioned earlier that Abt Ja‘far, peace be on him, had seven children. 
1. Abt ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them. 
He was given his kunya by his (father). 


2. Abd Allah b. Muhammad, peace be on him. 
Their mother was Umm Farwa, daughter of al-Qasim b. Muhammad b. Abt Bakr. 


3. Ibrahim 
4. ‘Ubayd Allah 
Both died young. Their mother was Umm Hakim, daughter of Asid b. al-Mughira 


378 


al-Thaqaft. 


5. ‘Ali 
6. Zaynab 
Both were born of a slave-wife. 


7. Umm Salama 
She was born of a slave-wife. 


No one considered the Imamate to belong to any of the children of Abi Ja‘far 
Muhammad, peace be on him, except specifically Abi ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far b. 
Muhammad, peace be on them. His brother, ‘Abd Allah, may Allah be pleased 
with him, used to point to him for his outstanding merit and righteousness.. 


It is reported that he (‘Abd Allah) came upon one of the Bani Umayya, and the 
latter wanted to kill him. ‘Abd Allah, may Allah have mercy on him, said: “Don't 
(try to) kill me, for Allah will be my support against you. Leave me and Allah 
will be a support to you” 


He meant by that that he was one of those who could intercede with Allah and 
that he would do so. However, the Umayyad said to him: “You are not there (in 


heaven where you can ask Allah’s help).” 


He made him drink poison and he killed him. 


379

[[p 31]]
CHAPTER V 


IMAM JA‘FAR B. MUHAMMAD AL-SADIQ 


This is an account of the Imam who was in charge (a/-qa ‘im) after Abi Ja‘far 
Muhammad b. ‘Alt, peace be on them, (including) who his mother was, the date 
of his birth, evidence for his imamate, his age, the period of his succession (to the 
Imamate), the time of his death, the place of his grave, the number of his children 
and a brief outline of the reports about him. 


Al-Sadiq Ja‘far b. Muhammad b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, was 
out of all his brothers (the one who was) the successor (khalifa) of his father, 
Muhammad b. ‘Alt, peace be on them, his testamentary trustee (wasi), who was 
in charge of the Imamate (al-qa ‘im bi-al-imama) after him. He stood out among 
their group for his great merit (fad/); he was the most celebrated, the greatest in 
rank and the most illustrious of them in (the eyes) of both the non-Shr‘a ( ‘@mma) 
and Shi‘a (khassa). The people transmitted on his authority the religious sciences 
which travellers carried with them (around many countries) and thus his fame 
was spread throughout the lands. The learned scholars have transmitted on 
the authority of no other member of the House (ah/ al-bayt) as much as they 
have transmitted on his authority. None of them met as many of the reporters 
of traditions (ahl al-athar wa-naqalat al-akhbar) as he did, nor did the latter 
transmit on their authority to the same extent as they transmitted on the 
authority of Aba ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far b. Muhammad), peace be on him. The 
specialists in tradition (ashab al-hadith) have gathered together the names of 
those who narrated on his authority, who were reliable despite differences in 
views and doctrines and they were four thousand men. The clear evidence for his 
Imamate, peace be on him, was such that it overcame (men’s) hearts and silenced 
(the attempts of) an opponent to denigrate it with doubts. 


He was born in Medina in the year 83 A.H. (702) and he, peace be on him, died 
in (the month of) Shawwal in the year 148 A.H. (765) at the age of sixty-five. 
He was buried in (the cemetery of) al-Baqi‘ alongside his father, his grandfather 
and his (great-great) uncle, al-Hasan, peace be on them. His mother was Umm 
Farwa, the daughter of al-Qasim b. Muhammad b. Abi Bakr. His Imamate, peace 
be on him, lasted for thirty-four years. His father, Abt Ja‘far (Muhammad b. 
‘Ali), peace be on him, clearly gave him the trusteeship (of the Imamate) and 


gave him an explicit designation (nass jali) for the Imamate. 
28 2K OK 


380 


[Muhammad b. Abi ‘Umayr reported on the authority of Hisham b. Salim on 
the authority of Abu ‘Abd Allah, Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them, who 
said:]! 

When my father was near to death he said: “Ja‘far I give testamentary 
enjoinment to you (to treat) my followers well.” 


“May I be your ransom,” I replied, “by Allah, I will make them (know their 
religion so well) that any man among them in the country will not (have to) ask 


anyone (for advice).” 
OK 2 2k 2 


[Aban b. ‘Uthman reported on the authority of Abu al-Sabbah al-Kinani, who 
said:]? 

Abt Ja‘far Muhammad, peace be on him, looked towards his son, Abi ‘Abd 
Allah Ja‘far, peace be on him, and said (to us): “Do you see that man? He is one 
of those of whom Allah, the Mighty and High, said: We wish to grant a favour to 
those who have been humiliated in the land and we will make them Imams and 


inheritors (XXVIII 5). 
OK 2 2 2 


[Hisham b. Salim reported on the authority of Jabir b. Yazid al-Ju‘fi:]° 

Abt Ja‘far Muhammad, peace be on him, was asked about the one who would 
take charge (al-qa ‘im) (of the Imamate) after him. He tapped Abt ‘Abd Allah 
Ja‘far, peace be on him, with his hand and said: “By Allah, this is the man among 
the family of Muhammad, peace be on them, who will take charge (al-qd ‘im) (of 


the Imamate).” 
ok 2 2 2K 


[‘Ali b. al-Hakam reported on the authority of Tahir, a follower of Aba Ja‘far 
Muhammad, peace be on him, who said:]* 

I was with (Abt Ja‘far Muhammad), peace be on him, when Ja‘far, peace be 
on him approached, Abi Ja‘far, peace be on him, said, “Here is the best of 


creatures.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


[Yunus b. ‘Abd al-Rahman reported on the authority of ‘Abd al-A‘la, a retainer 
of the family of Sam, on the authority of Abu ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace be on 


1 Al-Kafi, I, 306, tradition no. 2. Al-Kulayni’s isnad has been shortened. 
2 Al-Kafi, 1, 306, tradition no. 1. Al-Kulaynt’s isnad has been shortened. 
3 Al-KGfi, I, 307, tradition no. 7. Al-Kulayni’s isndd has been shortened. 
4 Al-Kafi, 1, 306, tradition no. 4. Al-Kulaynt’s isnad has been shortened. 


381 


him, who said:]> 

My father, peace be on him, entrusted to me (everything) which was there. When 

he was near to death, he said: “Call witnesses for me.” I summoned four men 

from Quraysh, among them Nafi‘, retainer of “Abd Allah b. ‘Umar. (My father 

said:) “Write this testimony which I bequeath (like) Jacob did to his sons: 
My sons, Allah has chosen the religion for you. So do not die except as 
Muslims. (I 132). Muhammad b. ‘Ali makes this last testimony to Ja‘far 
b. Muhammad. He orders him to shroud him in the cloak in which he used 
to perform the Friday prayer, to put on him his turban, to make his grave 
a square, to raise it the height of four fingers above the ground and to take 
his shabby clothes away from him at his burial. 


Then he said to the witnesses: “Depart, may Allah have mercy on you.” 
“Father” I said to him (after they had gone), “what was in this that there had to 
be witnesses for it?' 

“My son,” he answered, “I was unwilling for you to be overcome and for it to 


be said that no testimony had been made for him. I wanted you to have proof.” 
OK 2 2 2 


Reports with the same meaning as this account are numerous. The narration of 
the report of the tablet (/awh) with the designation of him, peace be upon him, 
for the Imamate has already been mentioned. The rational proofs which have 
been mentioned earlier that the Imam can only be the most outstanding person in 
merit (al-afdal) also indicate his Imamate, peace be on him, because of the clear 
demonstration of his outstanding merit in religious knowledge (‘i/m), in 
asceticism, and in practice above all his brothers, the members of his uncle’s 
family and the rest of the people of his time. The evidence for the invalidity of 
the Imamate of those who were not protected (from error) like the prophets (were 
protected) and the clear demonstration of the lack of protection of those others 
who claimed the Imamate during his lifetime, together with their deficiency in 
(attaining) complete knowledge of religion, clearly indicates his Imamate. For 
there must be an Imam who is protected (from error) at all times as we have 
mentioned before.® The people tell of the clear signs from Allah which were 
performed by him, peace be on him, which indicate his Imamate, his true right 
and the invalidity of the statements of those who claimed the Imamate on behalf 


of others. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


Among those is the report about him which the reporters of history (naqalat 


5 Al-KGfi, 1, 307, tradition no. 8. Al-Kulayni’s isndd has been shortened. 
6 Al-Mufid has not dealt thoroughly with this subject in this book. 


382 


al-athar) recount about him with al-Mansir.’ Al-Manstir ordered Rabr‘ to 
bring Abu ‘Abd Allah, Ja‘far, peace be on him, to him. He brought him. When 
al-Mansur saw him, he said: “May Allah kill me, if I don't kill you. You are 
attempting to harm my authority and you are seeking treachery against me.” 


“By Allah, I am not,” retorted Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far), peace be on him, “Nor 
do I want to. If you have been told so, then it is by a liar. However, even if I had 
done so, then Joseph was treated badly and he forgave, Job suffered tribulation 
and he was patient, and Solomon received gifts and he gave thanks. These men 
were prophets and your lineage goes back to them.” 


“Indeed,” replied al-Mansir, “Come up here.” He went up and then (al-Mansir) 
continued: “So-and-so has informed me about what you have been saying.” 
“Bring him, Commander of the faithful,” he replied, “so that he may confront 
me with that.” 


He had the man whom he had mentioned brought and asked him: “Did you 
(really) hear what you reported about Ja‘far, peace be on him?” 

“Yes,” he replied. 

“Make him swear to that,” said Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far), peace be on him. 

“Do you swear to that?” demanded al-Mansir. 

“T do,” he replied. 


“Say: May I be outside Allah’s power and strength and may I seek refuge in my 
own power and strength (if I lie that) Ja‘far, peace be on him, did such and such 
and said such and such,” said Abii ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far), peace be on him. 


(The man) paused for a moment and then made the oath. It was only a moment 
later that his leg was struck. 


“Drag him by his leg and take him out, may Allah curse him,” ordered Abii Ja‘ far 
(al-Mansur). 


Al-Rabt‘ reported: When Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them, went in to 
see al-Mansur, I saw his lips moving. As he moved them, al-Manstr’s anger 
(gradually) became quietened, so that when he approached him, he was pleased 
with him. When Abi ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far) peace be on him, came out from Abt 
Ja‘far (al-Manstr) I followed him and said to him: “This man was the angriest 


7 There are several earlier versions of Ja‘far’s meeting with the second ‘Abbasid Caliph. The 


account in Al-K@fi, II, 562-3 is similar but does not mention the witness and gives a different 
prayer. In Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 350-3 there is a report of the meeting. 


383 


of men towards you. When you went in, you were moving your lips as you went 
in and when you moved them his anger quietened. With what (words) were you 
moving them?” 


“The prayer of my (great) grandfather, al-Husayn b. ‘Alt, peace be on them,” he 
replied. 
“May I be your ransom,” I said, “what is this prayer?” 


He told him: 
O my Provision in time of hardship, O my Help in the face of disaster, 
guard me with Your Eye which never sleeps, surround me with Your 
impenetrable fortress. 


Al-Rabr‘ reported: I learned that prayer and I never fell into hard times without 
saying it and it relieving me. 


(At that time) I said to Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them: “Why did you 
stop the slanderer from (merely) swearing by Allah?” 

“T was reluctant that Allah should see him praising His unity and glorifying 
Him,” he answered, “for then He would show forebearance towards Him and 
delay his punishment. Therefore I made him swear in the way you heard and 
Allah struck him fiercely.” 


28 2K OK 


It is reported that Dawud b. ‘Ali b. ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Abbas killed al-Mu‘alla b. 
Khunays, a retainer of Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them, and took his 
property. Ja‘far, peace be on him, went to him while he was pulling at his cloak. 


“You have killed my retainer and taken his property,” (Ja‘far) said to him. “Do 
you know that a man may sleep when he has suffered the loss of a child but he 
may not sleep when he is at war? I will pray to Allah against you.” 

“Do you threaten us with your prayer?” he retorted as if he was ridiculing his 
words. 


Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far), peace be on him, went back to his house and spent 
the whole night standing and sitting. Then, at dawn he was heard saying in his 
private prayer: 
O Possessor of mighty strength, O Possessor of fierce enmity, O Possessor 
of power before which all Your creatures are humble, give me satisfaction 
against this tyrant and take vengeance on him for me. 


384 


It was not an hour before voices were raised in screeching (lamentation) and it 


was announced that Dawud b. ‘Alt had just died.® 
ok 2 2 2K 


Abi Basir reported: I visited Medina and I had a young slave-girl with me. I 
had intercourse with her and then I went to the baths. But I met some of our 
colleagues of the Shi‘a who were heading towards Ja‘far b. Sadiq, peace be 
on them. I was afraid that they would get there before me and I would miss 
visiting him so I went with them to the house. When I stood before Abi ‘Abd 
Allah (Ja‘far), peace be on him, he looked at me and said: “Abii Basir, don’t you 
know that the houses of prophets and the children of prophets are not suitable 
places to enter for those who are ritually impure?” 


I was ashamed and said: “Son of the Apostle of Allah, I met out companions and 
I was afraid that I would miss visiting you with them. I will never do the same 


thing again,” and I left. 
28 OK OK 


There are innumerable reports about him concerning signs and revealing the 
unknown similar to those which we have mentioned, which would take too long 


to recount. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


He, peace be on him, used to say: “Our knowledge is of what will be (ghabir), of 
what is past (mazbur), of what is marked in hearts (nakt fi al-qulib), and of what 
is tapped into ears (naqr fi al-asma ‘). We have the red case (jar), the white case, 
and the scroll of Fatima, peace be on her, and we have (the document called) al- 
jami‘a in which is everything the people need.” 


He was asked to explain these words and he said: “Ghabir is knowledge of what 
will be; mazbur is knowledge of what was; what is marked in the hearts (nakt fr 
al-qulub) is inspiration; and what is tapped into the ears (naqr fi al-asmG@ ‘) are 
words of angels; we hear their speech but we do not see their forms. The red 
case (jafr) is a vessel in which are the weapons of the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family. It will never leave us until the one (destined) 
among us members of the House, to arise (qa’im), arises. The white case (ja/r) 
is a vessel in which are the Torah of Moses, the Gospels of Jesus, the Psalms of 
David and the (other) Books of Allah. The scroll of Fatima, peace be on her, has 
in it every event which will take place and the names of all the rulers until the 


8 cf. Al-Kafi, II, 557, but the prayer is different. Al-Kashshi gives several versions. Ma ‘rifat al- 
Rijal, (Mashhad, 1348 A.H.S.) paras. 707, 708. 710, 711, 713. 


385 


(last) hour comes. (The document called) a/-jami ‘a is a scroll seventy yards long 
which the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, dictated from 
his own mouth and ‘Ali b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, wrote in his own hand- 
writing. By Allah, in it is everything which people need until the end of time, 
including even the blood-wit for wounding, and whether a (full) flogging or half 
a flogging (is due).’ 


28 2K OK 


He, peace be on him, used to say: “My traditions are my father’s traditions; my 
father’s traditions are my grandfather’s traditions; my grandfather’s traditions 
are the traditions of ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, the Commander of the Faithful; the 
traditions of ‘Alt the Commander of the Faithful are the traditions of the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family; and the traditions of the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, are the word of Allah, the Mighty 
and High’’.'° 


28 OK OK 


[Abt Hamza al-Thumali has reported on the authority of Aba ‘Abd Allah 
(Ja‘far), peace be on him:] 

I heard Abt ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far say: “We have the tablets of Moses, peace be 
on him, and we have the rod of Moses, peace be on him. We are the heirs of 


prophets.”! 
ok 2 2k 2K 3 


[Mu‘awiya b. Wahb reported on the authority of Sa‘td al- Simman:]!* 

I was with Aba ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them, when two 
of the Zaydis visited him. They asked him: “Is there among you an Imam whom 
it is a duty to obey?” 

“No,” he replied. 


“Reliable men have told us on your authority that you claim to be him,” they 
retorted. They named some people and said: “These are men of piety and 
distinction. They are among those who do not lie.” 


Abi ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, became angry and said: “I have not told them 

that.” 

When the two men saw the anger on his face, they left. 

9 This seems to be a composite tradition ofthe traditions contained in A/-Kafi, I, 238-242. The 
description of the different kinds of knowledge is similar to Al-Kafi, I, 264. 

10 This tradition is given in A/-K@fi, I, 53. 

11 AL-Kafi, I, 231, tradition no. 2. Al-Kulayni’s isndd has been shortened. 

12 Al-K@fi, 1. 232, tradition no. 1. Al-Kulayni’s isndd has been shortened. 


386 


“Do you know those two?” he asked me. 

“Yes,” I replied, “they are from the people of our market. They are Zaydis and 
they claim that ‘Abd Allah b. al-Hasan has the sword of Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family.” 


“They are liars, may Allah curse them,” he said. “By Allah, ‘Abd Allah b. al- 
Hasan has never seen it either with both his eyes or even with one of them. O 
Allah, not even his father has seen it unless he saw it with ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, 
peace be on him. If they are truthful, (ask them) what is the sign in the hilt and 
what is the mark on its blade. I have the sword of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family. I have the standard of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, and his breast-plate, his armour and his helmet. If 
they are truthful (ask them) what is the mark on the breast-plate of the Apostle of 
Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace. Indeed the victorious standard 
of the Apostle of Allah is with me, as are the tablets and rod of Moses. I have the 
ring of Solomon, the son of David, and the tray on which Moses used to offer 
sacrifice and I have (knowledge) of the (greatest) name (of Allah) which when 
the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, used to put it between 
the Muslims and the polytheists no arrow from the polytheists could reach the 
Muslims. I have the same as what the angels brought. We have the weapons in 
the same way that the Band Isra’1l had the ark of the covenant. Prophecy was 
brought to any house in which the ark of the covenant was present; the Imamate 
will be brought to which ever of us receives the weapons. My father dressed in 
the armour of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, 
and it made marks on the ground. I put it on and it was (like) it was (for my 
father). The one (destined to) rise up (g@’im) from among us, will fill it (so that 
it fits him exactly) when he puts it on, if Allah wishes.” 


[‘Abd Al-A‘la b. A‘yan reported:]'° 

I heard Aba ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far) peace be on him, say: “I have the weapons of the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, but I will never fight with 
them.” Then he said: “These weapons are protected, for if they were entrusted to 
the wickedest of Allah’s creatures, he would become the best of them.” Then he 
said, “This matter (i.e. the carrying of the Prophet’s arms in war) belongs to the 
man, for whom (horses’) reins will be twisted (as men ride in support of him). 
When Allah wills it, he will be brought out (into the open). Then people will say: 
‘Who is this who has appeared?’ Allah will give him support (to have power) 
over his subjects.” 

ok 2 2 2K 3 


[‘Umar b. Aban reported: ] 
13 Al-K@fi, 1, 234. tradition no. 2. Al-Kulayni’s isndd has been shortened. 


387 


I asked Abu ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far) peace be on him, about what the people were 
saying that Umm Salama, the mercy of Allah be on her, had been handed a sealed 
scroll. He said: “When the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him 
peace, died, ‘Ali, peace be on him, inherited his knowledge, his weapons and 
what there was. Then that went to al-Hasan, peace be on him, then to al-Husayn, 
peace be on him.” 


“Did it go to ‘Alt b. al-Husayn, peace be on them, after that, then to his son and 
now has it come to you?” I asked. 
“Yes,” he replied. 


28 2K OK 2 


The reports with the same meaning are numerous. However, those of them which 
we have given will be sufficient to indicate what we are trying to show, Allah 
willing. 


AN EXTRACT FROM THE ACCOUNTS OF ABU ‘ABD ALLAH JA‘FAR B. 
MUHAMMAD AL-SADIQ, PEACE BE ON THEM, AND FROM HIS WORDS. 


I found (this written) in the handwriting of Abi al-Faraj ‘Ali b. al-Husayn b. 
Muhammad al-Isfahant, in the text of his book known as Magatil al-Talibiyin 
(the Martyrdoms of (the family of Abt) Talib):!* 


“Umar b. ‘Abd Allah al-‘Atki informed me: 

‘Umar b. Shabba told us: Al-Fadl b. ‘Abd al-Rahman al-Hashimi and Ibn Daja 
told us: 

Abt Zayd (‘Umar b. Shabba) (also) told me: ‘Abd al-Rahmaan b. ‘Amr b. Jabala 
told me: Al-Hasan b. Ayyub, retainer (maw/a) of the Banti Numayr told me, on 
the authority of ‘Abd al-A‘la b. A‘yan: 

Ibrahim b. Muhammad b. Abi al-Kiram al-Ja‘fari told me, on the authority of his 
father: 

Muhammad b. Yahya told me on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. Yahya: 

‘Isa b. ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad b. ‘Umar b. ‘Ali told me on the authority of 
his father: 

The account of some of them has been introduced into the account of the rest (as 
follows): 

A group of the Bani Hashim met at al-Abwa’. Among them were Ibrahim b. 
Muhammad b. ‘Ali b. ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Abbas and Abit Ja‘far al-Mansir, Salih. b. 
‘Alt, ‘Abd Allah b. al-Hasan, with his two sons Muhammad and Ibrahim, and 
Muhammad b.‘Abd Allah b. ‘Amr b. ‘Uthman. 

14 Magatil al-Talibiyin, 205 


388 


Salih. b. ‘Alt addressed (them): “You know that you are the ones towards whom 
the people turn their eyes and that Allah has brought you together in this place. 
Therefore give a pledge of allegiance to one from among you, which you should 
give to him with (genuine dedication) of yourselves. Bind yourselves so that 
Allah may bring victory, for He is the best bringer of victory.” 


“Abd Allah b. al-Hasan praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: “You know that 
this son of mine is the Mahdi. Therefore come, let us pledge allegiance to him.” 


“Why are you deceiving yourselves?” demanded Abt Ja‘far. “By Allah you 
know that there is no one else to whom the people would take greater strides nor 
greater speed to answer than they would to this man,” meaning Muhammad b. 
‘Abd Allah. 


“True,” they said, “this is he whom we acknowledge.” So they all pledged 
allegiance to Muhammad and took him by the hand. 


[‘Isa reported:] 

‘Abd Allah b. al-Hasan’s messenger came to my father, saying: “Come to us. We 
are gathered for an (important) affair.” He sent (information) about that to Ja‘far 
b. Muhammad, peace be on them. 


[Others, not including ‘Isa, reported:] 
‘Abd Allah b. al-Hasan said to those present: “You don’t want Ja‘far (here), for 
we fear that he would cause dissension among you in your affair.” 


[‘Isa b. ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad reported:] 

My father sent me to see what they had gathered for. So I went to them. (Ja‘far b. 
Muhammad, peace be on them, sent Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah al-Arqat b. ‘Ali 
b. al-Husayn. We went to them). Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah (b. al-Hasan)!° was 
praying on a folded carpet from a saddle. 


“My father has sent me to you,” I told them, “to ask you why you have gathered 
together.” 

“We have gathered (here),” ‘Abd Allah b. al-Hasan said, “to pledge allegiance to 
the Mahdi, Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah.” 


[They (i.e. the other authorities) reported:] 
Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them, arrived and ‘Abd Allah b. al-Hasan 


15 What is between brackets has been omitted by al-Mufi’d but is included from Magatil al- 
Talibiyin, 207. 


389 


made room for him beside him. He repeated what he had said before. However, 
Ja‘far said: “Don't do it. The time (for the Mahdi) has not yet arrived. If you - 
meaning ‘Abd Allah - consider that this son of yours is the Mahdi, he is not, nor 
is this the time for him (i.e. the Mahdi). Because you are one of our most revered 
elders we will not forsake you in favour of pledging allegiance to your son, even 
if you only intend him to rise in anger in Allah’s cause, to command the good 
and prohibit the evil.” 


‘Abd Allah became angry and said: “I know that (the facts are) the opposite of 
what you are saying. By Allah, Allah has not acquainted you with (knowledge 
of) His unseen world. Rather it is envy for my son which prompts you to this 
(attitude).” 


“By Allah, it is not that which prompts me,” replied (Ja‘far) “but this man, his 
brothers and his sons.” Then he tapped with his hand on the back of Abi al- 
‘Abbas and he tapped with his hand on the shoulder of ‘Abd Allah b. al-Hasan. 


“By Allah, it (i.e. the caliphate) is not for you nor for your two sons,” (Ja‘far) told 
him, “but it is for them (i.e. the ‘Abbasids). Your two sons will be killed.” He 
got up and leaning on the arm of ‘Abd al-‘Aziz b. ‘Imran al-Zuhri, he continued, 
“Do you see the owner of the yellow cloak?” - meaning Abt Ja‘far (al-Mansir). 
“Yes,” he replied. 

“By Allah,” he said, “we have a foreboding that he (Abt Ja‘far) will kill him 
(Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah).” 

“Will he kill Muhammad?” ‘Abd al-‘Aziz asked him. 


“Yes,” he replied. 
ok 2 2 2K 


[‘Abd al-‘Aziz reported: ] 
I said to myself, “By the Lord of the Ka‘ba, he is envious of him.” But then, by 
Allah, I had not left this world before I saw him (Abi Ja‘far) kill both of them. 


28 2K 2K 


When Ja‘far said that, the people arose and separated. ‘Abd al-Samad and Abt 
Ja‘far followed him and asked him, “Abu ‘Abd Allah, do you really say this?” 
“Yes,” he replied, “by Allah I say it and I know it.” 


28K OK 


[Abi al-Faraj reported: ‘Ali b. al-‘ Abbas al-Maqani‘T told me: Bakkar b. Ahmad 
informed us: al-Hasan b. al-Husayn, on the authority of ‘Anbasa b. Bijad’® al- 


16 Correct name from Ibn Dawud, 264. 


390 


‘Abid told us:] 

Whenever Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them, saw Muhammad b. ‘Abd 
Allah b. al-Hasan, his eyes would flow with tears and then he would say: “(I 
would sacrifice) my life for him. The people say that (he is the Mahdi while) he is 
to be killed. He is not in the Book of ‘Ali, peace be on him, as one of the caliphs 
of this community.””!” 


This (second report) is a famous report just like the one before it. The historians 
do not differ on the accuracy of both of them. They both (clearly) give evidence 
for the Imamate of Abt ‘Abd Allah al-Sadiq, peace be on him. Indeed miracles 
were performed by him in order that he might make known things which were 
unknown and show the existence of things before they came to be, just as 
prophets, peace be on them, used to make (such things) known. That was one 
of their signs and indications of their prophethood, and their truthfulness (in 


speaking) about their Lord, the Mighty and Exalted. 
28K OK 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad b. Qilawayh told me on the authority 
of Muhammad b. Ya‘qtb al-Kulayni, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Ibrahim b. 
Hashim, on the authority of his father, on the authority of a group of his men 
(i.e. teachers), on the authority of Yiinus b. Ya‘qiib, who said:]!® 

I was with Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far), peace be on him, when a Syrian came to 
him. He said: “I am a scholar (sahib) of theology, jurisprudence, and the laws of 
inheritance. I have come to dispute with your followers.” 


“Ts your theology from the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, or from yourself?” Abu ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far), peace be on him, asked. 
“Partly from the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, and 
partly from myself,” replied (the other man). 


“Then are you a partner of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family?” enquired Abu ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far). 
“No,” he answered. 


“Have you heard inspiration (wahy) (direct) from Allah?” 
“No,” he replied. 


“Ts obedience to you required as is obedience to the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
17 What is between brackets is omitted by al-Mufid but is included from Maqatil al-Talibiyin, 


208. 
18 Al-Kafi, 1, 171-3. 


391 


bless Him and His Family?” 
“No,” was the answer. 


Abt ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, turned to me and said: “Yunus b. Ya‘qub, 
this man has contradicted himself before he has begun (the real business) of 
discussing.” Then he said: “Yinus, if you were good at theology, you should 
speak to him.” 


[Yunus remarked:] 

How sad it was, for I said to him: “May I be your ransom, I have heard you 
forbid (taking part in) theology and say: Woe to the theologians who say that 
this follows and that this does not follow; that this is entailed and that this is not 
entailed; that this we accept as rational and this we do not accept as rational.” 


“T only said,” Abt ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him remarked, “woe to them, if they 
abandon what I say and adopt their own wishes.” Then he told me: “Go out to the 
door and look for any of the theologians you can see, and bring them in.” 


I went out and found Humran b. A‘yan who was good at theology, and Muhammad 
b. al-Nu‘man al-Ahwal, who was a theologian, and Hisham b. Salim and Qays b. 
al-Masir, both theologians. I brought them (all) in to him. After he had settled us 
in the assembly - we were in the tent of Abi ‘Abd Allah at the top of a mountain 
on the edge of the sanctuary (of Mecca) (Aaram) and that was (a few) days before 
the days of the pilgrimage, Abt ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, put his head out 
of the tent. There appeared at that moment a camel dashing along. He cried out: 
“Hisham, by the Lord of the Ka‘ba!” 


We thought that it was Hisham, one of the sons of ‘Aqil, who loved him greatly. 
But behold, it was Hisham b. al-Hakam who came. He still only had the first 
traces of his beard on his face. All of us there were older than him. Abi ‘Abd 
Allah, peace be on him, made room for him and said: “(Here is) one who helps 
us with his heart, his tongue and his hand.” 


He told Humran: “Debate with the man” - meaning the Syrian. Humran debated 
with him and overcame him. Then (Abt ‘Abd Allah) said: “O Taq, debate with 
him.” So Muhammad b. al-Nu‘man debated with him and overcame him. Next 
he said: “Hisham b. Salim, debate with him.” So they both argued together. He 
then told Qays b. Masir to debate with him and he did so. Abi ‘Abd Allah, peace 
be on him, began to smile at their discussion as the Syrian sought to escape in 
front of him. He told the Syrian: “Debate with this lad” - meaning Hisham b. 
al-Hakam. 


392 


“Yes,” replied the Syrian and said, “lad, ask me about the Imamate of this man” 
- meaning Abii ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him. 


Hisham was so angry that he trembled but then he said: “Fellow, does your Lord 
look after His creatures or do they look after themselves?” 
“Indeed,” replied the Syrian, “my Lord looks after His creatures.” 


“What does He do to look after their religion for them?” 

“He gives them duties and provides them with proof (Aujja) and evidence for the 
things which He has required of them. He removes any weaknesses they might 
have about that.” 


“What is the evidence which He has established for them?” Hisham asked him. 
“Tt is the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family,” the Syrian 
answered. 


“What after the Apostle of Allah?” enquired Hisham. 
“The Book and the sunna.” 


“Do the Book and the sunna benefit us today in our differences so that the 
differences are removed from us and we are able to agree?” asked Hisham. 
“Yes,” replied the Syrian. 


“Then do we differ from you,” retorted Hisham, “so that you have come to us 
from Syria to dispute with us? You claim that personal judgement (ra’y) is the 
method (of establishing the practices) of religion while you acknowledge that 
personal judgement does not bring people who differ together in one doctrine.” 


The Syrian was silent as if he was thinking. So Abi ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, 
asked him: “Why aren’t you debating?” 

“If I say: We do not differ,” he answered, “I would be (merely) being obstinate. If 
I say: the Book and the sunna remove our differences, I would be wrong because 
the two bear (different) interpretations. However, I could use the same argument 
against him.” 


“Ask him, then,” Abi ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, told him. “You will find him 
competent.” 


So the Syrian asked Hisham: “Who looks after His creatures, their Lord or 


themselves?” 
“Indeed their Lord looks after them,” replied Hisham. 


393 


“Does He establish for them someone who will harmonise their doctrine, remove 
their differences and explain the true from the false to them?” demanded the 
Syrian. 

“Yes,” replied Hisham. 


“Who is that?” asked the Syrian. 
“At the beginning of the shari‘a, it was the Apostle of Allah but after the 
Prophet, blessings and peace be on him, it was someone else.” 


“Who is it other than the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, who 
takes his place (al-qa’im maqamahu) in being His (i.e. Allah’s) proof?” the 
Syrian asked. 

“Now or before?” Hisham responded. 


“At the present time,” answered the Syrian. 

“This man who is sitting here,” said Hisham - meaning Abi ‘Abd Allah. “He is 
the one to whom you travelled; he is the one who tells us about heaven and is the 
inheritor from father and grandfather.” 


“How would I have knowledge of (the truth of) that?” asked the Syrian. 
“Ask him about anything which occurs to you,” Hisham told him. 


“You have stopped (any) excuse of mine but I do have a question,” the Syrian 
declared. 

“T will dispense with your questioning,” Abt ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, told 
him. “TI will tell you about your travel and your journey. You left on such and 
such a day. Your road was such and such. You passed so and so and such and 
such (a man) passed you.” 


Every time he told him anything about his affair, the Syrian would say: “True, by 
Allah.” Then the Syrian said to him: “At this moment I have submitted (aslamtu) 
to Allah.” 


“Rather at this moment you have faith (@manta) in Allah,” said Abu ‘Abd Allah, 
peace be on him. “/s/@m (submission to Allah) is before zmdan (faith in Allah). 
On the basis of the former (/s/am) they arrange inheritance and marriage: on the 
basis of faith (@man) men are rewarded.” 


“True,” replied the Syrian, “at this moment I testify that there is no God but 


Allah, that Muhammad is the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, and that you are the (present) trustee (was7) (of Allah) among the trustees 


394 


(appointed by Allah).” 


Abi ‘Abd Allah approached Humran and said: “Humran, conduct theology on 
the basis of traditional knowledge (a@thar) and you will be correct.” He turned to 
Hisham b. Salim and said: “You want to use traditional knowledge but you don’t 
know it” Then he turned to al-Ahwal and said: “You are a man who uses givas 
and is evasive, a man who refutes falsehood with falsehood, even though your 
false argument is stronger.” Then he turned to Qays b. Masir and said: “When 
you debate, the nearer you are to truth and traditions (khabar) on the authority of 
the Prophet, the further you are from it: you mix up the truth with what is false. A 
little truth suffices for much which is false. You and al-Ahwal are skilful (verbal) 
gymnasts.” 


[Yunus b. Ya‘qub remarked:] By Allah, I thought he would say to Hisham 
something close to what he had said to them. 

Then he said: “Hisham, you are hardly likely to fall, for you tuck in your legs 
(like a bird): when you are about to fall to the earth, you fly. Therefore a person 
like you should debate with the people. Guard against slipping and intercession 
will be behind you.” 


28K OK 


This report, together with what it contains of rational proof and evidence for the 
Imamate, also includes the content of the two previous reports’ evidence of the 
miraculous ability of Abu ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him. It agrees with them in 
the (full) significance of proof. 


28 2K 2K KR 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad al-Qummi informed me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ya‘qtib al-Kulayni, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Ibrahtm b. Hashim, 
on the authority of his father on the authority of ‘Abbas ‘Amr al-Faqimi:]!° 

Ibn Abi al-‘Awja’, Ibn Taltt, Ibn al-A‘ma and Ibn al-Mugaffa‘ with a group 
of Zindiqs were gathered in the Sacred Mosque during the season of the 
pilgrimage. Abii ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them, was 
there giving legal decisions to the people, explaining the Qur’an to them and 
answering their questions with arguments and proofs. The group said to Ibn Abi 
al-‘ Awja’: “Can you induce this man sitting here to make a mistake and question 
him about what would disgrace him in front of those who are gathered around 
him? For you can see the fascination of the people for him; he is (supposed to be) 


19 The tradition in this form does not seem to appear in al-Kafi despite the inclusion of al- 


Kulaynt’s name in the isnad. However cf. Ibn Babawayh, Kitab al-Tawhid. (Tehran 1387 AH) 
253-4. 


395 


the great scholar of his time.” 


“Yes,” replied Ibn Abi al-‘Awja’. He went forward and the people moved aside. 
He said: “Abt ‘Abd Allah, gatherings for discussion are things to be taken 
care of. Everyone who has a cough must cough, so will you permit me to ask a 
question?” 

“Ask, if you want to,” Aba ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, answered him. 


Then Ibn Abt al-‘Awja’ asked him: “For how long will you tread on this 
threshing-floor and go round this stone? For how long will you worship this 
house made of bricks and mud and amble around it like a camel when it is scared? 
Whoever thinks about this and considers it, realises that it is the action of an 
unintelligent and unthinking man, so explain (it) as you are the principal 
exponent (lit. head and hump) of this affair, and your father was its founder and 
support.” 


“Those whom Allah leads astray and whose hearts He blinds find the truth 
unwholesome and will never taste its sweetness,” retorted al-Sadiq, peace be 
on him. “The devil is the friend and lord of such a man. He will lead him to 
the watering places of destruction and never let him come from them. This is a 
house where Allah’s creatures seek to worship Him in order that their obedience 
in coming to it may be well known. Therefore He has urged them to magnify it 
and to visit it and He has made it the place of His prophets and the direction of 
prayer for those who pray to Him. It is a part of Paradise and a path which leads 
to His forgiveness. It is set up at the seat of perfection and at the meeting point 
of majesty and glory. Allah created it over two thousand years before the earth 
was laid out. The most worthy to be obeyed in what He orders and to have His 
prohibitions refrained from is Allah the Creator of souls and forms.” 


“You have only spoken and referred (me) to someone who is not present, Abt 
‘Abd Allah,” retorted Ibn Abt al-‘Awja’”. 


“Shame on you,” retorted al-Sadiq, peace be on him. “How could One Who is 
present with His creatures and closer to them than a vein in the neck, Who hears 


their words and knows their secrets, be someone who is not present.” 


“Ts He in every place or isn’t He?” asked Ibn Abi al-‘Awja’. “If He is in Heaven, 
how can He be on earth? And if He is on earth, how can He be in Heaven?” 


“You described something which is created,” retorted Abi ‘Abd Allah, peace 
be on him, “which when it moves from one place, and when another place is 


396 


occupied by it, and when (the former) place is without it, then, in the place 
which it has come to, it does not know what happens in the place in which it 
was. As for Allah, the Mighty, (the Dignified, the Ruler, the Judge,)”° there is no 
place without Him and no place occupied by Him. He is not nearer to one place 
than He is to another. In that way the traces of Himself (which He gives) bear 
witness to Him and His actions give evidence for Him. He whom He has sent 
with precise signs and clear proofs, Muhammad, may Allah bless Him and His 
Family, has brought us this (form of) worship. If you have any doubts about any 
of His commandments, ask about it and I will explain it to you.” 


Ibn Abi al-‘Awja’ became stupified and did not know what to say. He left his 
presence and said to his companions: “I asked you to find me some wine (to 
enjoy myself with) and you threw me on to a burning coal.” 


“Shut up,” they told him. “You have disgraced us by your bewilderment. We saw 
no one today more humiliated than you in his discussion.” 


“Are you saying this to me?” he replied. “He is (only) the son of a man who 
shaved the heads of those whom you see.” He indicated with his hand towards 
the people gathered for the pilgrimage. 


[It is reported: ]?! 

One day Abii Shakir al-Daysani stood in a discussion group of Abt ‘Abd Allah, 
peace be on him, and said: “You are one of the shining stars, your fathers were 
wonderful full moons and your mothers were graceful discreet women. Your 
lineage is the most noble of lineages. When learned men are mentioned, it is for 
you that the little finger is bent (i.e. he is the first to be counted). So tell me, O 
bountiful sea, what is the evidence for the creation of the world?” 


“The easiest evidence for that is what I will show you (now),” answered Abu 
‘Abd Allah, peace be on him. Then he called for an egg and put it in the palm of 
his hand. “This is a compact protective container; inside it is the thin (substance 
of an) egg which is surrounded by what could be compared with fluid silver and 
melted gold. Do you doubt that?” 

“There can be no doubt about that,” replied Abt Shakir. 


“Then it splits open showing a form like (for example) a peacock,” continued 
Abi ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him. “Has anything entered into it other than what 


20 What is between brackets is omitted by al-Mufid and included from Ibn Babawayh, Kitab al- 


Tawhid, 253-4. 
21 This tradition is reported by Ibn Babawayh, Kitab al-Tawhid, 292-3. 


397 


you knew (to be there already)?” 
“No,” he replied. 


“This is the evidence for the creation of the world.” 

“You have explained, Aba ‘Abd Allah,” he said, “and you have made it clear. 
You have spoken and brought improvement. You have described it and spoken 
concisely. You knew that we would not accept anything which we could not 
realise with our eyes, or hear with our ears, or taste with our mouths, or smell 
with our noses, or touch with our skin.” 


“You have mentioned the five senses,” said Abt ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, 
“but they will not bring any benefit in rational deduction except as evidence, just 
as darkness cannot be removed without light.” 


He, peace be on him, means by that that the senses without reason will never lead 
to the understanding of things which are not present, and that what he had shown 
with regard to the creation of the form was a concept whose recognition ( “/m) 


was based on sense-perception. 
ok 2 2k 2K 


(The following is an example) of what has been recorded on his authority, peace 
be on him, concerning the necessity of knowing Allah the Most High and His 
religion: He said: “I have found the knowledge of all the people (encompassed) 
by four things: 

1. You should know your Lord; 

2. You should know what He has done for you; 

3. You should know what He wants from you; 

4. You should know what would make you abandon your religion. 


These four divisions include (all) the requirement of things which should be 
known because the first thing that a man should do is to know his Lord, may 
His Majesty be exalted. When he knows that he has a Lord, it is necessary that 
he must know what He has done for him. When he knows what He has done for 
him, he knows of His blessings. When he knows of His blessings, it is necessary 
that he should thank Him. When he wants to carry out his thanks, he must know 
what He wants so that he may obey Him in his actions. Since obedience to Him is 
necessary, it will be necessary for him to know what would cause him to abandon 
his religion so that he might avoid it, and in that way keep pure his obedience to 
his Lord and his thanks for His blessings.” 


28 2K OK 2K 


398 


(This is an example) of what was recorded on his authority peace be on him, 
concerning the unity of Allah and the denial of anthropomorphism. 


He said to Hisham b. al-Hakam: “Allah, the Exalted, should not be compared 
to anything, nor should anything be compared to Him. Whatever comes to the 
imagination is other than Allah.” 


(The following is an example) of what was recorded on his authority, peace be on 
him, concerning his words on justice: He said to Zurara b. A‘yan: “Zurara, shall 
I give you a summary of (the doctrine of) decree (gada) and destiny (gadar)?” 
“Yes, may I be your ransom,” replied Zurara. 


“When it is the Day of Resurrection and Allah has gathered His creatures 
together, He will ask them about what He enjoined upon them but He will not ask 


them about what He had decreed for them.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


(This is an example) of what was recorded on his authority concerning wisdom 
and exhortation. 

He said: “Not everyone who intends something is able to do it. Not everyone 
who is able to do something will be granted success in it. Not everyone who is 
granted success in something will do it in the right place. When intention, ability, 


success and correctness come together, there happiness is perfected.” 
OK 2 2K 3 


(This is an example) of what has been recorded of him, peace be upon him, 
urging consideration of Allah’s religion and the acquisition of knowledge about 
the friends (awliya’) of Allah. 

He said: “Give close consideration to things which you cannot afford to ignore, 
be true to yourselves and fight against your (inclinations) so that you may find 
out those things which it is inexcusable not to know. These are the basic elements 
of Allah’s religion. If a man ignores them, he will gain no benefit (no matter) how 
intense is his striving in pursuit of the outward form of worship. On the other 
hand, no harm will come to a man who knows them and abides by them with 
moderation (in his behaviour). There is no way for anyone except through the 
help of Allah, the Mighty and High.” 


28K OK KR 


(The following is an example) of what has been recorded on his authority, peace 
be on him, urging repentance: 
He said: “To delay repentance is to be heedless; to lengthen the time of putting 


399 


off (religious duties) is (to create) confusion (in one’s mind); to attempt to justify 
oneself before Allah is (to bring about one’s own) destruction; persisting in sin 
makes (a person) feel secure from Allah’s devising. Only people who are lost feel 


secure from Allah's devising. [VII 99]” 
OK 2 2k 2K 3 


The reports about what has been recorded on his authority, peace be on him, 
conceming knowledge, wisdom, asceticism, exhortation and all the branches of 
learning are too numerous to be enumerated in one speech or to be included in 
one book. What we have set out is enough for the purpose of what we intended. 


Allah is the bringer of success for what is right. 
28 2K 2K 2 


(The poet) al-Sayyid Isma‘Tl b. Muhammad al-Himyari, may Allah have mercy 
on him, withdrew from the doctrine of the Kaysaniyya” which he had professed, 
when he was informed of Abi ‘Abd Allah’s peace be on him, denial of this 
doctrine and of his prayers for him and he (returned) to the system of the 
Imamate. He said of him, peace be on him: 
O (you) who ride a tall, strong camel to Medina, on which (you) cross 
every broad land, 


If Allah guides you, you will look to Ja‘far. So speak to the friend (wali) 
of Allah, the son of the man who was well-educated (in the learning of 
Allah): 


Friend of Allah and son of the friend of Allah, I repent before the Merciful 
and then I return 


To you from the wrong which I used to hold while I was constantly 
striving against all who obviously expressed (the truth). 


Yet my words concerning the son of Khawla”? were not meant to be 
rebellious against the offspring of the celebrated one. 


Rather they were spoken on the authority of the trustee (was7) of 
Muhammad - and he was not a liar when he said 


That the master of the affair (wali al-amr) would disappear without being 
22 The Kaysaniyya believed in the Imamate of Muhammad b. al-Hanafiyya. They held that he had 


not died and that he was in occultation until he would return as the Mahdi. 
23 Muhammad b. al-Hanafiyya’s mother. 


400 


seen for years like a man afraid. 


The possessions of the missing man will be distributed as if his 
concealment were in the high heaven. 


Say, “No,” and the truth is what you say, and what you say is final without 
me adding any fanaticism. 


I testify to my Lord that your words are a proof (Aujja) to all creatures, 
whether obedient or sinful, 


That the master of the affair (wali al-amr) and the one who will arise (al- 
qa’im) whom my soul (now) looks towards and who excites it to joy, 


That He will have concealment (Ghayba) where it is inevitable that he 
will conceal himself. May Allah bless him as one who will be concealed. 


He will delay for a time then his authority will come to dominate and he 
will fill all (the lands) from East to West with Justice. 


In this poetry there is clear evidence for the withdrawal of al-Sayyid, may Allah 
have mercy on him, from the beliefs of the Kaysaniyya, and for his holding the 
doctrine of the Imamate of al-Sadigq, peace be on him. (There is also evidence) 
for the existence of a clear call on the part of the Shi‘a during the time of Abu 
‘Abd Allah to (accept) his Imamate and to hold the doctrine of the concealment 
of the leader (for the rest) of time (sahib al-zaman), the blessings and peace of 
Allah be on him. This (poem) is a clear indication of (al-Sayyid’s belief) and it 
is a clear statement of (the doctrine of) the Twelver-Imamites (Imdmiyya ithna 
‘ashariyya). 


The Number of Abu ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far’s Children, their Names and 
an Extract of the Reports about them. 


Abi ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, had ten children. They were 

1. Isma‘il 

2. ‘Abd Allah 

3. Umm Farwa 
The mother of these (three) was Fatima, daughter of al-Husayn b. ‘Ali b. al- 
Husayn. 


4. Musa 


401 


5. Ishaq 
6. Muhammad 
(all of these three were born) to a slave-wife 


7. Al-‘Abbas 
8. ‘Alt 

9. Asma’ 

10. Fatima 


They had different mothers. 
28 2K 2K 2K 


Isma‘il was the eldest of his sons. Abt ‘Abd Allah loved him very much, and was 
very kind to him. Some of the Shi‘a used to think that he would take charge (of 
the Imamate) (qa ’im) after his father and would be his successor after him, since 
he was the oldest in years and because of his father’s inclination towards him 
and compassion for him. However, he died at al-‘Ard during the life-time of his 
father, peace be on him, and he was carried on the shoulders of men to his father 
in Medina and he was buried in (the cemetery) of al-Baqi‘. 


It is reported that Abi ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him was very grieved and 
saddened by his (death). He led his litter barefoot and without a cloak. He 
ordered his litter to be put on the ground many times before he was buried, and 
he uncovered (Isma‘1l) face and looked at it. 


His intention in doing that was to establish the fact of (Isma‘Il) death to those 
who had thought that he was to succeed after him, and to remove from them any 
mistaken belief with regard to him (still) being alive. 


When Isma‘il, may Allah have mercy on him, died, those of his father’s 
followers who had thought and believed in Isma‘tl Imamate after his father, 
abandoned that doctrine. However, a small group maintained that (Isma‘Il) was 
still alive (and was the successor). This group was not from the close associates 
of his father (khdssa) nor from those who report on his authority. Such men (who 
held Isma‘tl to be still alive) were distant and extremists. 


When al-Sadiq, peace be on him, died, a group of the latter then moved across to 
declare the Imamate of Misa b. Ja‘far, peace be on him, after his father, peace be 
on him. The rest divided into two (main) divisions. One of them withdrew from 
the doctrine that Isma‘Tl was still alive and maintained the Imamate of his son 
Muhammad b. Isma‘il because of their view that the Imamate had belonged to 
Isma‘Il (as successor) and that a son has more right to the Imamate than a brother 


402 


has. The other group maintained their position that he was still alive. However, 
today, they are extremely rare and there is not any knowledge of anyone of them 
who can be pointed out. Both these groups are called the Isma‘ilyya. Those of 
them who are known now, are the ones who claim that the Imamate after Isma‘1l 


belonged to his son and the sons of his son to the end of time, 
ok 2 2 2K 


‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far was the eldest of his brothers after Isma‘il but he did not 
have a position of honour with his father similar to the rest of his father’s sons. 
He was suspected of opposing his father’s teaching and it is said that he used to 
mix with the Hashwiyya and was inclined towards the beliefs of the Murji’a. 
He claimed the Imamate after his father and argued that he was the eldest of the 
surviving brothers. A group of the followers of Abu ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, 
followed him in his declaration. Later most of them went back to the doctrine 
of the Imamate of his brother, Misa, peace be on him, when they perceived the 
weakness of his claim, and the strength of the authority of Abt al-Hasan (i.e. 
Misa), peace be on him, together with the evidence for the right of the latter and 
the clear proofs of his Imamate. However, a small number of them, continued in 
their belief and professed the Imamate of ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far. They are the sect 
which is nick-named al-Fathiyya. This name is only attached to them because of 
their doctrine of the Imamate of ‘Abd Allah, for he was flat-footed (aftah) in both 
feet. It is (also) said that they were called that because of the propagandist for the 
Imamate of ‘Abd Allah was called ‘Abd Allah b. Aftah. 


28K OK 2K 


Ishaq b. Ja‘far was one of the men of merit, righteousness, piety and striving 
(after Allah) ({jtihad). The people relate traditions and reports on his authority. 
When Ibn Kasib used to relate a tradition on his authority, he used to say: 

“The reliable satisfactory authority, Ishaq b. Ja‘far has told me.” 


Ishaq used to uphold the Imamate of his brother, Misa b. Ja‘far, peace be on 
him, and he reported on the authority of his father the designation (nass) of the 


Imamate on his brother, peace be on him. 
OK 2 2 2 


Muhammad b. Ja‘far was generous and brave. He used to fast on alternate days. 
However, he held Zaydi views concerning coming out (in rebellion) with the 
sword. 


[It is reported on the authority of his wife, Khadija, daughter of ‘Abd Allah b. 
al-Husayn, who said:] 


403 


Muhammad never left us on any day with a cloak without coming back after 
having put it (on someone else). Every day he used to slaughter a ram for 
his guests. He led a revolt against al-Ma’miin in the year 199 A.H. (814/5) in 
Mecca. The Jariidiyya branch of the Zaydis followed him. ‘Isa al-Jaliidi came to 
fight against him. He dispersed (Muhammad’s) groups, captured (Muhammad) 
and sent him to Ma’miin. When he reached al-Ma’min, the latter treated him 
with kindness, made him sit close beside him, and gave him the best of gifts. 
He resided with (al-Ma’miin) in Khurasan and rode to him in the procession of 
his kinsmen. al-Ma’miin put up with (things) from him which a ruler does not 
(usually) put up with from his subjects. 


However, it is (also) reported that al-Ma’mtn refused to allow him to ride to 
him with a group of the descendants of Abt Talib, who had revolted against al- 
Ma’min in the year 200 A.H. (815/6) and to whom he had given security. The 
decree came to them: “Do not ride with Muhammad b. Ja‘far. Ride with ‘Abd 
Allah b. al-Husayn.” However, they refused to ride and stayed in their houses. 
Then the decree came: “Ride with whomever you prefer.” So when they rode to 
al-Ma’mitn, they rode with Muhammad b. Ja‘far and then they departed when 
he did. 


[Musa b. Salama has mentioned: ] 

(News) came to Muhammad b . Ja‘far and he was told: “The servants of the 
man with two offices”> have beaten your servants over a dispute about firewood 
which they had bought.” He went out wrapping himself in two cloaks and 
(taking) with him a thick stick. He was reciting verse, saying: “Death is better 
than living in humiliation.” The people followed him until he struck the servants 
of the man with two offices and took the wood away from them. News (of this) 
got back to al-Ma’min and he sent to the man with two offices and told him: “Go 
to Muhammad b. Ja‘far, peace be on him, apologise to him and give him power 
to decide what to do against your (servants).” The man with two offices came to 
Muhammad b. Ja‘ far. 


[Musa b. Salama reported:] 

I was sitting with Muhammad b. Ja‘far when he came. (Muhammad) was told: 
“Here is the man with two offices.” 

"He will only sit on the ground," he declared and he and those with him took the 
carpet which was in the house and threw it aside. There was only the cushion on 
which Muhammad b. Ja‘far was sitting left in the house. 


24 cf. Maqatil al-Talibiyin, 538. 
25 The man with two offices (i.e. military and civil administration) was al-Fadl b. Sahl. 


404 


When the man with two offices entered, Muhammad made room for him on the 
cushion. However, he refused to sit on it and sat on the ground. He apologised to 
him and gave him power to decide what to do with his servants. 


Muhammad b. Ja‘far died in Khurasan (while he was still) with al-Ma’mtn. 
Al-Ma’min rode to attend his (funeral). He met them as they were bringing him 
out. He looked at the litter, got down, and walked between the two poles of (the 
litter). He remained between them until it was put down. Then he went forward 
and said the prayer over him. Then he (helped to) carry it until he went down into 
the grave. He remained there until (they) began to erect (the tomb) over it. Then 
he went out of it and stood at the grave until the burial was complete. 


‘Ubayd Allah b. al-Husayn spoke to him and called out to him, “Commander of 
the faithful, you have become weary today, wouldn’t you prefer to ride?”. 
“These are bonds of kinship which have been cut for two hundred years,” replied 
al-Ma’mitn. 


[It is reported on the authority of Isma‘1l b. Muhammad b. Ja‘far, who said :] 

I said to my brother who was at my side while al-Ma’min was standing at the 
grave: “If we told him (al-Ma’miin) about the venerable man’s debts, we would 
not find anyone closer than him at this time.” Then we began (to mention them) 
to Ma’miin. 


“How much debt did Abi Ja‘far (i.e. Muhammad b. Ja‘far) leave?” he asked. 
“Fifteen thousand dinar,” I told him. 

“Allah has relieved him of his debt,” he said. “To whom did he make his will?” 
“To his son called Yahya in Medina,” we answered. 

“He is not in Medina,” he said. “He is in Egypt and we are aware of him being 
there. However, we are unwilling to let him know about (our knowledge) of 
his departure from Medina so that that should not harm him as a result of his 


knowledge of our dislike of his departure from there” 
OK 8 2 2K ok 


‘Ali b. Ja‘far, may Allah be pleased with him, was an important narrator of 
traditions, correct in method, with intense piety and great merit. He stayed 
close to his brother Misa, peace be on him, and reported many traditions on his 


authority 
28 OK OK 


Al-‘Abbas b. Ja‘far, may Allah have mercy on him, was a man of outstanding 


merit. 
ok ok ok ok ok 


405 


Musa b. Ja‘far, peace be on them, was the most distinguished, the greatest in 
rank, and the one most hailed by the people of the sons of Abt ‘Abd Allah, peace 
be on him. In this no one was seen who was more generous than him, kinder 
in spirit and companionship. He was the person most given to worship and the 
most pious and distinguished, the most knowledgeable in jurisprudence of the 
people of his time. The members of his father’s Shi‘a agreed on the doctrine of 
his Imamate, on the greatness of his right and on submitting to his authority. 
They have reported on the authority of his father numerous designations (ass) 
of the Imamate on him, and indications of him (being given) the succession. 
They took the guidelines of their religion from him. They report clear signs and 
miracles from him through which he has established proof of himself and the 
correctness of the doctrine of his Imamate. 


406

[[p 32]]
CHAPTER VI 


IMAM MUSA AL-KAZIM 


This is an account of the Imam who was in charge (al-qa ‘im) after Abu ‘Abd 
Allah Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them, (describing) who gave birth to 
him and the date of his birth. (It includes) the evidence for his Imamate, the age 
he reached and the period of his succession (khilafa), his death, its cause, the 
place of his grave, the number of his children and a brief outline of the reports 
about him. 


As we have mentioned before, the Imam after Abt ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace be 
on him, was Abit al-Hasan Misa b. Ja‘far, the righteous worshipper (of Allah), 
peace be on him, because the qualities of outstanding merit and perfection were 
gathered in him, because of the designation (nass) by his father of the Imamate 
(being) for him, and his clear indication of it being his. 


His birth took place at al-Abwa’ in the year 128 A.H. (745/6). He, peace be on him, 
died in the prison of al-Sindi b. Shahik in Baghdad on the 6th of (the month of) 
Rajab in the year 183 A.H. (799). He was then fifty-five years of age. His mother 
was a Slave-wife named Hamida al-Barbariyya. The period of his succession and 
occupying the office of the Imamate after his father, peace be on them, was 
thirty-five years. His kunyas were Abu-Ibrahim, Abi al-Hasan and Abt ‘AIT. 
He is known as al-‘Abd al-Salth (the pious worshipper of Allah) and also he is 
described as al-Kazim (the restrained), peace be on him. 


THE DESIGNATION (N4ss) OF (IMAM MUSA) FOR THE IMAMATE BY HIS 
FATHER, PEACE BE ON THEM. 


Among the shaykhs of the followers of Abu ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, his 
special group (khdssa), his inner circle and the trustworthy righteous legal 
scholars, may Allah have mercy on them, who report the clear designation of the 
Imamate by Abt ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far peace be on him, for his son, Abt al-Hasan 
Musa, peace be on him, are: al-Mufaddal b. ‘Umar al-Ju‘ft, Mu‘adh b. Kathir, 
‘Abd al-Rahman b. al-Hajjaj, al-Fayd b. al-Mukhtar, Ya‘qib al-Sarraj, Sulayman 
b. Khalid, Safwan al-Jammal, and others whom it would make the book too long 
to mention. 


(That designation) is also reported by his two brothers, Ishaq and ‘Alt, sons of 
Ja‘far, peace be on him. They were men of merit and piety and (therefore reliable 


witnesses) in so far as two such men did not differ on it. 


407 


[Musa al-Sayqal reported on the authority of al-Mufaddal b. ‘Umar al-Ju‘fi, may 
Allah have mercy on him, who said:]! 

I (i.e. al-Mufaddal b. ‘Umar al-Ju‘fi) was with Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far), peace 
be on him. Abi Ibrahtm Misa, peace be on him, came in. He was still a boy. 
Abu ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace be on him, said to me “Indicate to those of your 
Companions whom you trust that the position of authority belongs to him Misa.” 


[Thubayt reported on the authority of Mu‘adh b. Kathir, on the authority of Abi 
‘Abd Allah Ja‘far:]? 

I (i.e. Mu‘adh b. Kathir) said to (Ja‘far): “I ask Allah, Who provided your father 
with you for this position, to provide you with one of your offspring for the same 
position before your death.” 

“Allah has done that,” he answered. 


“May I be your ransom, who is it?” I asked. 

He indicated al-‘Abd al-Salih (the pious worshipper of Allah) (i.e. Misa) to me. 
He was asleep. 

“This one who is sleeping,” he said. He was at that time a boy. 


[Abu ‘Alt al-Arrajani reported on the authority of ‘Abd al-Rahman b. al-Hajjaj, 
who said: ]? 

I (i.e. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. al-Hajjaj) visited Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on 
them, in his house. He was in such-and-such a room in his house which he used 
as a prayer-room. He was praying there. On his right hand was Misa b. Ja‘far, 
peace be on them, following his prayer. 


“May Allah make me your ransom,” I said, “you know how I have dedicated my 
life to you and (you know of) my service to you. Who is the master of the affair 
(wali al-amr) after you?” 

He said: “Abd al-Rahman, Misa has put on the armour and it fitted him.” 
“After that, I have no further need of anything,” I replied. 


[Abd al-A‘la reported on the authority of al-Fayd b. al-Mukhtar, who said: ]* 

I (i.e. al-Fayd b. al-Mukhtar) said to Abi ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace be on him: 
“Take my hand away from the fire (of Hell). Who is (the Imam) for us after you?” 
Abi Ibrahim (Misa) entered - at that time he was a boy. Then (Ja‘far) said: “This 
is your leader (sahib). Keep close to him.” 

1 Al-kafi, I, 308, tradition no. 4. Al-Kulaynt’s isndd has been shortened. 

2 Al-Kafi, 1, 308, tradition no. 2. Al-Kulaynt’s isndd has been shortened. 

3 Al-Kafi, 1. 308, tradition no. 3. Al-Kulayni’s isndd has been shortened. Al-Arrajani is al- 


Kulaynt?’s reading of the name. 
4 Al-Kafi, 1, 307, tradition no. 1. Al-Kulaynt’s isndd has been shortened. 


408 


[Ibn Abt Najran reported on the authority of al-Mansir b. Hazim, who said:]° 

I (i.e. al-Mansiir b. Hazim) said to Abi ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him: “(May 
I ransom you) with my father and mother. There is a great coming and going 
among men about (the succession). Since that is so, who is it?” 


“Since that is so,” replied Abt ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him, “he is your leader.” 
He tapped the right shoulder of Abi al-Hasan (Musa). He was at that time, as far 
as I know, about five years old. ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far was sitting with us. 


[Ibn Abi Najran reported on the authority of ‘Isa b. ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad b. 
‘Umar b. ‘Alt b. Abt Talib, on the authority of Abi ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace be 
on him:]° 

I (i.e. ‘Isa b. Muhammad) asked (Ja‘far): “If something happened - may Allah 
not make me see such a thing - who should I follow?” 

(Ja‘far) pointed to his son, Musa. 

“Tf anything happened to Misa, who should I follow?” I asked. 

“His son,” he replied. 

“Tf anything happened to his son?” 

“Then his son.” 

“Tf something happened to him,” I went on, “and he left a big brother and a small 
son?” 

“His son; it is always thus,” he answered. 


[Al-Fadl reported on the authority of Tahir b. Muhammad on the authority of 
Abi ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace be on him:]’ 

I @.e. Tahir b. Muhammad) saw (Ja‘far) blaming his son, ‘Abd Allah, and 
warning him. He was saying: “What stops you from being like your brother? By 
Allah, I see the light in (Mtisa’s) face.” 


“Why is that?” asked ‘Abd Allah. “Is not my father and his father one and the 
same? Is not my origin and his origin one and the same?” 

“He is from my soul and you are my son,” replied Abt ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace 
be on him. 


[Muhammad b. Sinan reported on the authority of Ya‘qiib al- Sarraj, who said:]§ 
I (Ge. Ya‘qiib al- Sarraj) visited Abi ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace be on him. He 
was Standing by the head of Abii al-Hasan, Misa, peace be on him, who was in 


5 Al-Ka@fi, 1, 309, tradition no. 6. Al-Kulayni’s isnad has been shortened. 
6 Al-Kafi, I, 309, tradllion no. 7. Al-Kulayni’s isndd has been shortened. 
7 Al-K@fi, I, 310, tradition no. 10. Al-Kulaynt’s isnad has been shortened. 
8 Al-KGfi, I, 310, tradition no. 11. Al-Kulaynt’s isndd has been shortened. 


409 


the cradle. He began to play with him for a long time. I sat down until he had 
finished. Then I stood up before him. He told me: “Approach your master 
(mawild) and greet him.” 


I went near him and greeted him and he replied to me eloquently. Then he told 
me: “Go and change the name of your daughter which you gave her yesterday. 
For it is aname which Allah dislikes.” 

A daughter had been born to me and IJ had named her al-Humayra’.’ 


“Pay attention to the command which he gave you,” Abt ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, 
peace be on him, told me. So I changed her name. 


[Ibn Miskan reported on the authority of Sulayman b. Khalid, who said:]'° 

One day Abi ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace be on him, called for Abi al-Hasan Misa 
while we were with him. He told us: “It is your duty (to follow) this man after 
me. By Allah, he is your leader after me.” 


[Al-Washsha’ reported on the authority of ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, on the authority of 
Safwan al-Jammal, who said:]!! 

I G.e. Safwan al-Jammal) asked Aba ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace be on him, about 
the leader of this affair (sahib al-amr) (after him). He said: “The leader of this 
affair is one who does not fool and play.” 


Abi al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, approached. He was still small. He had a 
calf (destined) for Mecca and was saying to it: “Prostrate yourself to your Lord.” 


Abt ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far, peace be on him, took him by the hand and embraced 
him saying: “May I ransom with my father and mother (you) who do not fool 
and play.” 


[Ya‘qub b. Ja‘far al-Ju‘fi reported: Ishaq b. Ja‘far al-Sadiq, peace be on him, told 
us:]!? 

One day I (i.e. Ishaq) was with my father (Ja‘far) when ‘Ali b. ‘Umar b. ‘Ali 
asked him: “May I be your ransom, to whom shall we and the people turn after 
you?” 

He answered: “To the owner of two yellow clothes and two locks of hair. He who 
is coming out of the door to you.” 


9 Humayra’ was one of the names by which ‘A’ isha, wife of the Prophet, was known. 
10 Al-K@fi, 1, 310, tradition no. 12. Al-Kulaynt’s isnad has been shortened. 

11 Al-Kafi, I, 311, tradition no. 15. Al-Kulayni’s isndd has been shortened. 

12 Al-K@fi, 1, 308, tradition no. 5. Al-Kulayni’s isndd has been shortened. 


410 


We did not wait long before two (little) hands appeared pulling the two doors so 
that they opened. In before us came Abt Ibrahim Misa, peace be on him. He was 
still a boy and was wearing two yellow garments. 


[Muhammad b. al-Walid reported: I heard ‘Alt b. Ja‘far b. Muhammad al-Sadiq, 
peace be on them, say:] 

I (i.e. ‘Ali b. Ja‘far) heard my father, Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on them, 
say to a group of his close associates and followers: “Treat my son, Misa, peace 
be on him, with kindness. He is the most meritorious (afdal) of my children and 
the one who will succeed after me. He is the one who will undertake (qa im) my 
position. He is Allah’s proof (Aujja) to all His creatures after me.” 


‘Alt b. Ja‘far remained firmly loyal to his brother Misa, peace be on him, 
devoted to him, and enthusiastic in taking the outlines of religion from him. He 
has a famous (book) Masa ’il (questions) in which he relates the answers he heard 
from (Musa), peace be on him. 


The reports of what we have mentioned are too numerous to be explained and 
described fully. 


AN EXTRACT OF THE PRoors, SIGNS, INDICATIONS AND MIRACLES WHICH 
ABU AL-HASAN MUSA (PRESENTED). 


[Abt al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad b. Qulawayh informed me, on the authority 
of Muhammad b. Ya‘qib al-Kulayni, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya, 
on the authority of Ahmad b.Muhammad b. ‘Isa, on the authority of Abi Yahya 
al- Wasiti, on the authority of Hisham b. Salim, who said:]'° 

I (i.e. Hisham b. Salim) and Muhammad b. Nu‘man (known as) Sahib al-Taq 
were in Medina after the death of Abt ‘Abd Allah, peace be on him. The people 
had agreed that ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far was the leader of the affair (sahib al-amr) 
after his father. We went to visit him and the people were with him. We 
questioned him about how much poor-tax (zakat) had to be paid. 

“Five dirhams on two hundred dirhams,” he answered. 

“How much on a hundred dirhams?” we asked. 

“Two and a half dirhams,” he answered. 

“By Allah, you are declaring the doctrine of the Murji’a,” we said. 

“By Allah,” he retorted, “I do not know the doctrine of the Murji’a.” 


We, Abi Ja‘far al-Ahwal (i.e. Muhammad b. Nu‘man) and myself, left, 
wandering without knowing where to go. We sat in one of the lanes in Medina 


13 Al-KGfi, 1, 351 tradition no. 7. 


411 


weeping. We did not know where we should go or to whom we should turn. 
We spoke about (joining) the Murji’ites, the Qadarites, the Mu‘tazilites, and the 
Zaydites. We were in this situation when I saw a venerable man whom I did not 
know. He indicated to me with his hand. I was afraid that he was one of the spies 
of (the ‘Abbasid caliph) Abt Ja‘far al-Mansitr. There were spies in Medina for 
him (to find out) who the people agreed on to succeed Ja‘far. Then that man (i.e. 
the Imam) would be captured and executed. I was afraid that that man was one 
of them. 


“Go aside,” I said to al-Ahwal, “I am afraid for myself. You be careful. He only 
wants me. He does not want you. Leave me, for you will lead (him) to yourself.” 
(Al-Ahwal) went some distance away from me and I went over to the venerable 
man. That was because | thought that I would not be able to escape from him. As 
I followed him, I was certain of my own death until he brought me to the door of 
Abi al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him. Then he left me and went away. There was 
a servant at the door. He said to me: “Come in, may Allah have mercy on you.” 


I went in. There was Abt al-Hasan Musa, peace be on him. He spoke to me 
before (I could speak): “To me, to me; not to the Murji’ites, nor to the Qadarites, 
nor to the Mu‘tazilites, nor to the Zaydites.” 

“May I be your ransom,” I replied, “your father has gone.” 

“Yes,” he answered. 

“He has left through death,” I said. 

“Yes,” he retorted. 

“Then who is in charge of the people after him?” I asked. 

“Tf Allah wills, He will guide you to that man,” he answered. 

“May I be your ransom,” I said, “your brother ‘Abd Allah claims that he is the 
Imam after his father.” 

““Abd Allah intends that Allah should not be worshipped (properly),” he 
declared. 

“May I be your ransom, who is in charge of us after him?” I asked (again). 

“Tf Allah wills, He will guide you to that man,” he repeated. 

“May I be your ransom, are you him?” I questioned. 

“T am not saying that,” he replied. 


I thought to myself that I had not used the correct method of questioning. So I 
said to him: “May I be your ransom, do you have an Imam over you?” 

“No,” he replied. Something came to me which only Allah knew with regard 
to honouring and showing respect (to Musa). So I said to him: “May I be your 
ransom, may I question you like I used to question your father?” 

“Question,” he said. “You will be informed but do not spread (the answer) 


412 


around. For if you do spread it around, then slaughter will take place.” 


I questioned him. Indeed he was like a sea (of knowledge) which could not be 
exhausted. I said to him: “May I be your ransom, the Shi‘a of your father is lost 
(without a leader). May I put this matter to them and summon them (to follow) 
you? For you have taken (a promise of) secrecy from me.” 


“Tell those of them whose righteousness you are familiar with,” he said, “but 
take (a promise of) secrecy from them. For if it gets spread around, there will be 
slaughter,” and he pointed to his neck with his hand. 


I left him and met Abi Ja‘far al-Ahwal. 
“What happened to you?” he asked. 
“Guidance,” I said and I told him the story. 


Then we met Zurara and Abi Basir. They went to him, listened to his words 
and questioned him. They asserted his Imamate. We met wave after wave of the 
people. Everyone who went to him, declared (his Imamate) except for the group 
of ‘Ammar al-Sabati. Abd Allah persisted in his claim but only a few of the 
people came to him. 


[Abt al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad b. Qulawayh informed me on the authority 
of Muhammad b. Ya‘qitib on the authority of ‘Alt b. Ibrahim on the authority of 
al- Wafiqi who said:]'4 

I (al-Wafiqi) had an uncle called al-Hasan b. ‘Abd Allah. He was an ascetic 
and one of the most pious people of his time. The authorities were wary of him 
because of his earnestness and his vigour towards religion. Sometimes he would 
approach the authorities concerning enjoining the good and forbidding the evil 
because of something which had angered him. They accepted that because of 
his righteousness. The state of affairs continued until one day he went into the 
mosque. There was Abi al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him. He beckoned to him 
and (my uncle) went to him. 


(Musa) said to him: “’Abu ‘Alt, nothing is more pleasing to me and gives 
me greater joy than the way you behave. Despite that, you do not have true 
knowledge (ma Tifa). Seek for true knowledge.” 

“May I be your ransom,” he said to him, “what is true knowledge?” 

“Go so that you may learn,” he told him. “Seek out traditions.” 

“From whom?” he asked. 


14 ALKafi, 1, 352, tradition no. 8. Al-Wafiqi is al-Kulayni’s reading. He gives the full name as 
Muhammad b. so-and-so Wafiqi. 


413 


“From the jurists of Medina,” he answered, “and then bring the additions to me.” 


He went and wrote down (what he learnt). Then he came and read to him. 
However (Misa) invalidated all of it. He told him: “Go and learn.” 


The man was concerned about (his own attitude to) his religion. He continued 
to search for ‘Abt al-Hasan until he went to (visit) an estate of his. On the road 
he met him. He said to him: “May I be your ransom, I have sought for you (by 
begging) Allah. Guide me to what is necessary for me to know.” 


Then ‘Abt al-Hasan, peace be on him, informed him about the authority and 
rights of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, and what it was 
necessary for him to know. (He told him of) the authority of al-Hasan, al-Husayn, 
‘Alt b. al-Husayn, Muhammad b ‘Alt and Ja‘far b. Muhammad. Then he was 
silent. 

(Al-Hasan) said to him: “May I be your ransom, who is the Imam today?” 

“If I tell you,” he answered, “will you come close to me?” 

“Yes,” he replied. 

“Tam he,” he said. 

“Ts there anything by which this could be proved?” he asked. 

“Go to that tree,” he said - and he pointed towards one of the trees of Umm 
Ghaylan, “and tell it that Misa b. Ja‘far tells you to draw near.” 


[He reported:] I went to it and I saw it furrow through the ground until it stopped 
in front of him. Then he indicated to it to go back and it went back. 


He went up to him and cleaved to silence and worship. No one ever saw him 
talking after that. 


[Ahmad b. Mihran reported on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Alt, on the 
authority of Abi Basir, who said:] 

I (i.e. Abt Basir) said to Abi al-Hasan Musa b. Ja‘far, peace be on them: “May I 
be your ransom, by what is the Imam known?” 


“By special characteristics,” he answered. “The first of them is something by 
which preference has been given him by his father and an indication (has been 
made) by his (father) that he should be proof (Aujja) (to the world). When he is 
asked (anything), he can answer it. If (a person) holds back from speaking to 
him, he may begin (the conversation) by telling him what will happen tomorrow 
and speaking to each person in his own tongue.” 


414 


Then he said: “Abi: Muhammad (i.e. Abu- Bastr) I will give you a sign before 
you rise to go.” 


I did not wait long before a man from the people of Khurasan entered. The 
Khurasani spoke to him in Arabic and Abt al-Hasan, peace be on him, answered 
him in Persian. 


“By Allah, what prevented me speaking to you in Persian was that I thought you 
were not fluent in it,” the Khurasani said to him. 

“Praise be to Allah,” he replied, “if I was not fluent enough to reply to you, I 
would not have the merit over you, by which I am entitled to the Imamate.” 


Then he said: “Abii Muhammad, no speech of the people is hidden from the 
Imam, nor the language of birds, nor the speech of anything which has a soul.” 


[‘Abd Allah b. Idris reported on the authority of Ibn Sinan, who said:] 

One day al-Rashid sent some robes to ‘Ali b. Yaqtin to honour him. Among 
their number was a black woollen cloak adorned with gold like the robes of 
kings. ‘Ali b. Yaqtin dispatched those robes to Misa b. Ja‘far, peace be on them. 
Among their number he (also) sent that cloak. He added some money which he 
had already prepared specifically for him as the fifth of his money (khums - tax 
for the Imams) which he was going to pay him. When that reached Abii al-Hasan 
Misa, peace be on him, he accepted the money and the robes but returned the 
cloak by the hand of the messenger to ‘Alt b. Yaqtin. He wrote to him: “Keep 
it and do not let it leave your hands. For an event will occur to you because of 
it when you will have the need of it with him (al-Rashid).” ‘Alt b. Yaqtin was 
suspicious about it being returned to him and did not understand the reason for 
that. Some time later, ‘Ali b. Yaqttn changed (his attitude) towards a servant 
who had a special position with him and he left his service. The servant knew 
about ‘Ali b. Yaqtin’s inclination towards Abu al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him. 
He was acquainted with the money, garments and other things (‘Alj) had sent to 
(Musa) on every occasion. He (went and) informed on him to al-Rashid. He told 
(al-Rashid) that (Alt) maintained the Imamate of Misa b. Ja‘far and paid him a 
fifth of his money each year, and also that he had given him the cloak with which 
the Commander of the faithful (al-Rashid) had honoured him at such-and-such a 
time. Al-Rashid burned with anger and was furious. He declared: “I will expose 
this situation. If the matter is as you say, his life will be destroyed.” 


He immediately sent for ‘Alt b. Yaqtin to be brought. When he appeared before 
him, he said: “What have you done with the cloak which I bestowed upon you?” 


415 


“Commander of the faithful,” (‘Alt) replied, “I still have it in a sealed chest 
and there I keep perfume with it. In the mornings I open it and look at it to gain 
blessings from it. I kiss it and then put it back in its place. Every night I do the 
same thing.” 

“Bring it, immediately,” he ordered. 


“Yes, Commander of the faithful,” he answered. He summoned one of his 
servants and told him: “Go to such-and-such a room in my house. Take the key 
for it from my custodian and open it. Open such-and-such a box and bring me 
the sealed chest which is in it.” 


It was not long before the servant returned with the chest still sealed. He put it 
before al-Rashid and told him to break the seal and open it. When he opened it, 
he saw the cloak in it folded and laid out in perfume. 


Al-Rashid’s anger became pacified and he said to ‘Alt b. Yaqtin: “Return it to its 
place and go away righteously. I will never disbelieve you again on the word of 
an informer.” 


He ordered a magnificent gift to be sent after him and he had the informer flogged 
with a thousand lashes. After he had been flogged about a hundred lashes, he 
died. 


[Muhammad b. Isma‘il reported on the authority of Muhammad b. al-Fadl, who 
said:] 

The tradition concerning rubbing the two feet (mash al-rijlayn) in the ritual 
ablution (wuda’) was a subject of dispute among our companions - whether (it 
should be done) from the toes to the ankles or from the ankles to the toes. ‘AIT b. 
Yaqtin wrote to Abt al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him: “May I be your ransom, 
our companions are in dispute over rubbing the feet. If you would think fit to 
write to me in your own handwriting what my practice should be with regard to 
it, | would carry it out, Allah, the Exalted, willing.” 


Abt al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, wrote back to him: “I have understood 
what you have mentioned about the dispute concerning ritual ablution. What I 
order you to do with regard to that is: you should rinse your mouth three times; 
you should sniff water into your nostrils three times; you should wash your face 
three times; you should rub between the interstices of the hair of your beard; you 
should wash your arms from the finger to the elbows; you should rub the whole 
of your head and the outside and inside of your ears; you should wash your feet 
up to the ankles three times. Do not transgress that for anything else.” 


416 


When the letter came to ‘Alt b. Yaqttn, he was surprised at the details he had 
given in it which were different from what the group had agreed upon. He 
said: “My master (mawlda) knows better what he has said and I will obey his 
command.” 


He used to practise it in his ablution and was in conflict with the practice of all 
the Shi‘a out of submission to the command of Abi al-Hasan, peace be on him. 


Information was given to al-Rashid against ‘Alt b. Yaqtin and he was accused 
of being a Rafidite,'> who is opposed to (al-Rashid). Al-Rashid said to one of 
his close associates: “Much talk is coming to me about ‘Ali b. Yaqttn, and the 
suspicion of him being in opposition to me and being of Rafidite leanings. Yet 
I cannot see any deficiency in his service to me. I have examined him several 
times and have not been able to find any suspicious thing about him. I would like 
to examine his (position) without him being aware of it and thus being able to 
guard himself against me.” 


He was told: “Commander of the faithful, the Rafidite oppose the general 
view (jama‘a) with regard to ritual ablution and reduce its form. They do not 
accept washing the feet. Therefore examine him - without his knowledge - on his 
practice in ritual ablution.” 

“Yes,” he replied, “this method will reveal his views.” 


He left it for a while. Then when ‘Alt was away at his house doing some work, 
he came at the time for prayer. ‘Alt b. Yaqtin was alone in one of the rooms of 
the house in order to perform his ablution and prayer. Al-Rashid stood behind the 
wall where he could see ‘Ali b. Yaqtin without him seeing him. He (‘Alt) called 
for water for the ablution. He rinsed his mouth out three times; he sniffed water 
into his nostrils three times; he washed his face three times; he rubbed between 
the interstices of his beard; he washed his arms to the elbows three times; he 
rubbed his head and his ears; and he washed his feet three times. 


Al-Rashid watched him. When he saw him do that, he could not contain 
himself from looking down on him from a position where (‘Al1) could see him 
and calling to him: “‘Alt b. Yaqtin, those who claim that you are one of the 
Rafidite are liars.” 


Thus (‘Ali’s) situation with (al-Rashid) was restored. A letter came to him from 
Abi al-Hasan, peace be on him: “Beginning from now ‘Ali b. Yaqtin, you will 
perform the ablution as Allah ordered it. Wash your face once as is mandatory 


15 A Rafidite, one of the names for the Shi’a. 


417 


and another time (as a voluntary act) within the ablution; similarly wash your 
arms from the elbows and rub the front of your head and the outer part of your 
feet with the remnants of the dampness from the ablutionary water (on your 
hands). What was feared for you has now been removed. Greetings.” 


[‘Alt b. Abi Hamza al-Batayint reported: ] 

One day Abi al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, left Medina for one of his estates 
outside the town. I (i.e. “Alt b. Abt Hamza) accompanied him. He, peace be on 
him, was riding on a mule and I was on a donkey of mine. As we were going 
along one of the paths, a lion blocked our way. I stared at it in terror but Abt 
al-Hasan, peace be on him, went forward without worrying about it. I saw the 
lion become subdued and mutter before Abt al-Hasan, peace be on him. Abu 
al-Hasan, peace be on him, stood as if he was listening to the muttering. The 
lion put its paw on the saddle of his mule. My soul trembled at that and I was 
absolutely terrified. Then the lion turned away to the side of the road. Abt 
al-Hasan turned his face toward the gibla (direction of Mecca) and began to 
pray. He moved his lips in such a way that I could not understand him. Then he 
indicated to the lion with his hand that it should go. The lion muttered for a long 
time and Abit al-Hasan said: “Amen, amen.” 


The lion went away until it disappeared from our sight. Abi al Hasan, peace be 
on him, went straight on and I followed him. When we were far from the place, 
I came up to him and said: “May I be your ransom, what was that business of 
the lion? By Allah, I was frightened for you and surprised at its attitude towards 
you.” 

“He came out to complain of the difficulty his lioness was having in giving 
birth,” Abt al-Hasan, peace be on him, told me. “He asked me to ask Allah to 
make it easier for her and I did that for him. He asked whether (I knew) in my 
heart if she would bear a male and I told him that. Then he told me: ‘Go in the 
protection of Allah. Allah will never impose on you, nor on your offspring, nor 
on any of your Shi‘a, any trouble from wild beasts.’ I said: Amen.” 


Reports of this kind are numerous. What we have set out of them is sufficient 
according to the scheme which has been set out, through the grace of Allah, the 
Exalted. 


A SAMPLE OF HIS VIRTUES, OUTSTANDING QUALITIES AND MERITS BY WHICH 
HE WAS DISTINGUISHED FROM OTHERS 


Abt al-Hasan Musa, peace be on him, was the most religious of the men of his 
time, the most knowledgeable in law, the most generous and the noblest in spirit. 


418 


It is reported that he used to pray supererogatory prayers throughout the night 
so that he would make them extend until the morming-prayer, then continue 
them until the sun rose. He would remain prostrating himself before Allah 
without raising his head from prayer and praising Allah until the sun came near 
to descending (from its midday zenith). Frequently when he used to pray he 
would say: 

O Allah, I ask of you ease at death and forgiveness on the Day of 

Reckoning. 


He would repeat that. Another of his prayers, peace be on him, was: 
How great is sin to You. Therefore let forgiveness seem good to You. 


He used to weep so much out of fear of Allah that his beard would be wet with 
tears. He was the kindest of men to his family and his kin. He used to search out 
the poor of Medina during the night and take them a basket, in which was money, 
flour and dates. He would bring that to them without them knowing in any way 
that it was from him. 


[Al-Shartf Aba Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad b. Yahya informed me: 
My grandfather Yahya b. al-Hasan b. Ja‘far told us: Isma‘il b. Ya‘qub told us: 
Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah al-Bakri told us. ] 

I G.e Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah) came to Medina to ask for repayment of a debt 
and it made me weary. I said (to myself): “If I had gone to Abt al-Hasan Misa, 
peace be on him, and complained to him.”So I went to him at Naqma at his 
estate. He came out to me. With him was a servant carrying a basket in which 
there was some chopped-up meat. He had no one else with him. He ate and I 
ate with him. Then he asked me what I wanted. So I told him my story. He went 
inside and it was only a short time before he came out to me. He told his 
servant to go and then he stretched out his hand towards me. He gave me a purse 
in which was three hundred dinars. Then he arose and turned away. I mounted 
my animal and went away. 


[Al-Shartf Abt: Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad on the authority of his 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan), on the authority of another of his colleagues 
and teachers, (who said:)]'° 

A man from the family of ‘Umar b. al-Khattab was in Medina trying to harm 
Abu al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him. Whenever he saw (Abi al-Hasan) he 
would curse him and curse ‘Ali, peace be on him. One day some of those who 
used to attend his gatherings said to him: “Let us kill this sinner.” 


16 The same story is reported in Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 499-500. Yahya b. al-Hasan is the source. 


419 


He forbade them from (doing) that most firmly and rebuked them severely. 


He asked about the descendant of ‘Umar and was told that he had a farm on the 
outskirts of Medina. He rode out to him and found him at his farm. As he entered 
the farm with his donkey, the descendant of ‘Umar cried out: “Do not tread on 
my sown land.” 


Yet Abt al-Hasan, peace be on him, continued to tread on it with his donkey until 
he reached him. He dismounted and sat with him. He greeted him with a smile 
and laughed at him. 

“How much have you paid to sow your land?” he asked. 

“One hundred dinars,” (the other man) answered. 

“How much do you hope to acquire from it?” 

“T do not know the unknown,” was the reply. 

“T only asked you about what you hope it would bring you,” retorted (Abt al- 
Hasan). 

“T hope that it will bring me two hundred dinars,” he answered. 


Abi al-Hasan took out a purse in which was three hundred dinars and said: “This 
is (the price) of what you have sown in its present condition (i.e. what you have 
spent to sow it and what you hope to gain from it.) May Allah provide you with 
what you hope for from it.” 


The descendant of ‘Umar kissed his head and asked him to forgive his (former) 
hasty words about him. Abi al-Hasan, peace be on him, smiled at him and went 
away. 


In the evening he went to the mosque and found that descendant of ‘Umar sitting 
there. When the latter saw him, he called out: “Allah knows best where to put his 
(prophetic) mission.” 


His companions jumped (in surprise) towards him and said to him: “What is the 
story (behind what you say), for you used to speak quite differently from this.” 


“You have heard what I have said now,” he replied and began to speak on behalf 
of Abi al-Hasan, peace be on him. They opposed him and he opposed them. 


When Abi al-Hasan returned to his house, he said to those who attended his 
gatherings and who had asked about killing the descendant of ‘Umar: “Which 
was better - what you wanted or what I wanted? I put right his attitude to the 
extent which you have now become acquainted with. I was sufficient for the evil 


420 


that was in him.” 


A group of the traditionalists (ah/ al- ‘ilm) mention that Abt al-Hasan, peace be 
on him, always used to travel with two hundred to three hundred dinars to give 
away. The purses of Musa, peace be on him, were proverbial. 


[Ibn ‘Ammar and other narrators record:]!’ 

When al-Rashid set out to go on the pilgrimage and was approaching Medina, 
the leading men among the inhabitants met him. Misa b. Ja‘far, peace be on 
them, came out to (al-Rashid’s group) on a mule. 


“What! Is this the animal on which you will meet the Commander of the 
faithful” al-Rabi‘ asked him. “If you were seeking (something) on it, you would 
not obtain it and if you were being sought (while you were) on it, you would not 
escape.” 


“Tt is beneath the vanity of horses and above the lowliness of asses and the best 
of matters are those which are moderate,” he replied. 


When Haritn al-Rashid entered Medina, he went to pay a visitation to (the tomb 
of) the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family. The people went with him. 
Al-Rashid went forward to the tomb of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, and said: “Greetings to you, Apostle of Allah! Greetings to 
you, cousin.” He was seeking to show his proud position over the others by that. 
But then Abt al-Hasan, peace be on him, went forward to the tomb and said: 
“Greetings to you, Apostle of Allah! Greetings to you, father.” 


(The expression on) al-Rashid’s face changed and the anger in it became 
transparently obvious. 


[Abt Zayd reported: ‘Abd al-Hamid told me:] 
Muhammad b. al-Hasan asked Abu al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, about 
attending al-Rashid while they were in Mecca. 


“Is it permitted of the person consecrated as a pilgrim (muhrim) to be shaded 
(from the sun) by his camel train?” (Muhammad b. al-Hasan) asked him. 

“Tt is not permitted for him if there is any choice available for him,” Musa, peace 
be on him, told him. 


“Ts it permitted for him to walk in the (natural) shade by choice?” Muhammad 


17 The same story about the mule on the same authority is in Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 484-489. 


421 


b. al-Hasan asked. 
“Yes,” replied Misa. 


Muhammad b. al-Hasan laughed at that. Abi al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, 
said: “Does the sunna of the Prophet, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
surprise you and are you scoffing at it? The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless 
Him and His Family, took advantage of the (natural) shade during his state 
of ritual consecration (iram) and walked in the (natural) shade while he was 
consecrated for the pilgrimage (muhrim). The laws of Allah, Muhammad, are not 
subject to analogy. Anyone who makes analogies of some of them on the basis 
of others, has strayed from the straight path.” 


Muhammad b. al-Hasan was silent and did not ask any more questions. 


The people have reported traditions on the authority of Abt al-Hasan Musa, 
peace be on him, and they have become very numerous; for, as we have said 
before, he was the most knowledgeable in the law during his time, and the most 
versed in the Book of Allah, the best of them in voice for recitation of the Qur’an. 
Whenever he recited, those who were listening to his recitation, would become 
sad and weep. 


The people in Medina named him “the ornament of those who spend nights in 
prayer” (mutahajjidin). He was also called al-Kazim (the one who holds back) 
because of his restraint of anger and the patience (which he showed) in the face 
of the acts of the oppressors right up until the time he died, murdered in their 
prison and bonds. 


REPORT ABOUT THE REASON FOR HIM BEING KILLED AND A SAMPLE OF THE 
ACCOUNTS ABOUT THAT 


The reason for al-Rashid detaining Abt al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, 
imprisoning him and killing him is (contained in what is mentioned in the 
following tradition). 


[Ahmad b. ‘Ubayd Allah b. ‘Ammar reported on the authority of ‘Ali b. 
Muhammad al-Nawfali on the authority of his father; and Ahmad b. Muhammad 
b. Sa‘Id (reported); and Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad b. Yahya: on 
the authority of their teachers, who said:]'® 

The reason for the arrest of Musa b. Ja‘far, peace be on them, was that al-Rashid 
had put his son in the care of Ja‘far b. Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath and Yahya. b. 
18 cf. Magatil al-Talibiyyin, 484-489. 


422 


Khalid b. Barmak was jealous of that. He said (to himself): “If the caliphate 
passes on to (the son), my dominion and that of my son will be destroyed.” 
Therefore he deceived Ja‘far b. Muhammad - and the latter used to maintain the 
belief in the Imamate - so that he managed to gain access to him and establish 
friendly relations with him. His visits to his house were frequent and he became 
acquainted with his affairs, which he would report back to al-Rashid and he used 
to add to these reports that which would make (al-Rashid) feel hatred towards 
him. 


One day (Yahya. b. Khalid) asked some of those he trusted: “Would you 
discover for me a member of the family of Abi Talib who is not in comfortable 
circumstances, and then he would let me know what I need?” 


He was directed towards ‘Al1 b. Isma ‘Il b. Ja‘ far b. Muhammad. Yahya. b. Khalid 
took him some money. Misa, peace be on him, was friendly with ‘Alt b. Isma‘Tl 
b. Ja‘far b. Muhammad and he used to bring him gifts and treat him well. 


Yahya. b. Khalid sent to (‘Ali b. Isma‘Tl) requesting him to visit al-Rashid and 
drawing his attention to the kind treatment which he had given him. So he 
decided to do that. Misa, peace be on him, was concerned and summoned ‘AI1. 
“Where are you going, cousin?” he asked. 

“Baghdad,” was the reply. 

“Why are you doing that?” he enquired. 

“T am in debt and I am poor,” he answered. 

“T will pay your debt and act for you and carry out (what you need),” Misa, 
peace be on him, told him. 


He did not pay attention to that and began to set about (preparations for his) 
departure. Abt al-Hasan, peace be on him, asked him to come and said to him: 
“Are you leaving?” 

“Yes,” he replied, “I must do that.” 

“Look, cousin,” he said to him, “fear Allah and do not give away any confidences 
against my children.” 

He ordered him to be given three hundred dinars and four thousand dirhams. 


(When he stood up in front of him, Abt al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, spoke 
to those who were present: “By Allah, he will strive against my blood and he will 


confide against my children.” 


“May Allah make us your ransom,” they said to him, “did you know this from his 
state when you were giving him gifts and being generous to him?” 


423 


“Yes,” he said, “my father told me on the authority of his ancestors, on the 
authority of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, that 
when kin cut themselves away, then they should be brought back, for if they cut 
themselves away, Allah will cut them off. I wanted to bring him back after he had 
cut himself off from me for if he cuts me off, Allah will cut him off.)'° 


‘Alt b. Isma‘Tl set out until he reached Yahya. b. Khalid. He gave him news of 
Misa b. Ja‘far, peace be on him, and (Yahya. b. Khalid) reported to al-Rashid 
and added additional material to it. Then he took him to al-Rashid. The latter 
asked him about his uncle and he gave information against him to (al-Rashid). 
He told him that money was being brought to him from east and west and that 
he had bought an estate named al-Yasir for thirty thousand dinars. Its (former) 
owner had said when he had brought him the money: “I will not accept this 
kind of currency. I will only accept such-and-such a kind of currency.” Then he 
ordered that money be brought and then he gave thirty thousand dinars of the 
currency whose coinage he had asked for. 


Al-Rashid listened to that from him and then ordered him to be given two 
hundred thousand dirhams, with which he sought to make a living in one of the 
areas. He chose one of the provinces of the east. 


His messengers were sent to bring the money and he waited there for its arrival. 
One day he went into the toilet, when he was suffering from dysentery and as a 
result of it the whole of his stomach came out. He fell down. They tried to put 
it back but they could not. He was aware of his situation when the money was 
brought to him while he was in the pangs of death. He said: “What can I do with 
it? I am about to die.” 


That year al-Rashid went on the pilgrimage. He began it at Medina and there 
he had Abi al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, arrested. It is reported that when 
he came to Medina, Musa, peace be on him, received him with a group of the 
nobles. They had gone out to meet him and then Abi al-Hasan, peace be on 
him, had gone on to the mosque as was his custom. Al-Rashid waited until night 
and then went to the tomb of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless him and his 
family. He said: “Apostle of Allah, I apologise to you for something I want to do. 
I want to imprison Misa b. Ja‘far because he is intending to bring division into 
your community and to cause the shedding of its blood.” 


Then he ordered him to be taken from the mosque and brought before him. He 
had him put in chains and called for two awnings to be brought. He had (Abu 


19 What is between brackets is not in Maqatil al-Talibiyyin. 


424 


al-Hasan) put in one of them on a mule and he had the other awning put on 
another mule. The two mules left his house carrying the two awnings which 
were closed. With each one went cavalry. The cavalry divided and some of them 
went with one of the two awnings on the road to Basra and the other on the road 
to Kufa. Al-Rashid only did that in order to confuse the people about what had 
happened to Abi al-Hasan, peace be on him. He ordered the men who were with 
the awning in which was Abi al-Hasan to hand him over to ‘Isa b. Ja‘far b. al- 
Mansir, who was governor of Basra at that time. 


He was handed over to him and he kept him in detention with him for a year. 
(Then al-Rashid wrote to him demanding (Abi al-Hasan’s) blood. ‘Isa b. Ja‘ far 
summoned some of his close associates and trusted colleagues and sought their 
advice about what al-Rashid had written to him. They advised him to hold back 
from doing that and to ask to be excused from it. ‘Isa b. Ja‘far wrote to al-Rashid 
saying: 
The affair of Misa b. Ja‘far and his stay under my detention has been 
going on for a long time. I have become well-acquainted with his situation. 
I have set spies on him throughout this period and I have not found him 
(do anything except) open his mouth in worship. I set someone to listen 
to what he said in his prayers. He has never prayed against you or against 
me. He has never mentioned us with malice. He does not pray for himself 
except for forgiveness and mercy. Either you send someone whom I can 
hand him over to or I will let him free. I am troubled at detaining him. 


It is reported that one of the spies of ‘Isa b. Ja‘far reported to him that frequently 
he used to hear him say in his prayers while he was detained: 
O Allah, You know that I used to ask you to give me free time to worship 
You. O Allah, you have done that. To You be praise.)”° 


Al-Rashid directed that he should be handed over by ‘Isa b. Ja‘far and taken to 
Baghdad. There he was handed over to al-Fadl b. al-Rabi*. He remained with 
him a long time. Then al-Rashid wanted him to carry out some matter in (Abt 
al-Hasan’s) affair and he refused. So he wrote to him to hand over to al-Fad1 b. 
Yahya. He received him from the former. (He put him in one of the rooms of one 
of his houses and set a watch over him. He, peace be on him, was occupied in 
worship; he used to keep the whole night alive with formal prayer, recitation of 
the Qur’an, personal prayer and effort. He would fast most days. His face never 
turned away from the mihrab (which showed the direction of prayer towards 
Mecca.))! 

20 The section between brackets is not in Magatil al-Talibiyyin. However, there is a brief mention 


of ‘Isa’s letter. 
21 The section between brackets is not in Maqatil al-Talibiyyin. 


425 


Al-Fadl b. Yahya made him comfortable and treated him with honour. That 
was communicated to al-Rashid while he was at al-Raqqa. He wrote to him 
denouncing him for making Misa, peace be on him, comfortable and ordering 
him to kill him. He held back from doing that and would not carry it out. At that 
al-Rashid became very angry. He summoned Masrur, the servant, and told him: 
“Go by the messenger-service (barid) immediately to Baghdad. Then go directly 
to Musa b. Ja‘far. If you find him in comfort and ease, then deliver this letter to 
al-‘ Abbas b. Muhammad and order him to submit to what is in it.” 


He handed another letter to him for al-Sindt b. Shahik, ordering him in it to obey 
al-‘ Abbas b. Muhammad. Masrir set out and arrived at the house of Al-Fad1 b. 
Yahya without anyone knowing what he wanted. Then he went to Musa, peace 
be on him, and found him as al-Rashid had been informed. He went directly to 
al-‘ Abbas b. Muhammad and al-Sindi b. Shahik. He delivered the two letters to 
them. 


The people did not wait long before the messenger went running to Al-FadI b. 
Yahya. He rode back with him. He went along perplexed and shocked until he 
reached al-‘Abbas b. Muhammad. Al-‘Abbas called for whips and two small 
platforms (‘aqabayn) to be brought. 


Then he ordered al-Fadl to be stripped. Al-Sindi flogged (al-Fadl) in front of 
(al-‘Abbas). (Al-Fadl) left with his colour changed completely from what it had 
been when he entered. He began to greet the people to right and to left. 


Masrir wrote to al-Rashid with the news and the latter ordered that Misa, peace 
be on him, should be handed over to al-Sindi b. Shahik. Al-Rashid had a large 
assembly. He said: “People, al-Fadl b. Yahya has disobeyed me and opposed 
(giving) the obedience due to me. You have seen me curse him so you curse 
him.” 


The people cursed him from every side until the room and the building shook 
with the (sound of) cursing him. 


The news reached Yahya b. Khalid. He rode to al-Rashid and entered by 
another door from that which the people used so that he came to him from behind 
without him being aware. Then he said: “Commander of the faithful, look at 
me.” Al-Rashid heard him with great fear, he said: “Al-Fad] is only a young man 
and I will take care of him for you in the way you would wish.” 


(Al-Rashid’s) face brightened and he went forward to the people saying: “Al- 


426 


Fadl disobeyed me in something and I have protected myself against him. Now 
he has repented and returned to obeying me. Therefore now take him as a friend.” 


“We are the friends of those you befriend and the enemies of those whom you are 
against,” they answered. “We have made him our friend.” 


Yahya b. Khalid departed on the messenger-service and reached Baghdad. There 
the people were disturbed and spreading disquieting rumours. He gave the 
impression that he had come to improve the administration of the Sawad and 
to look into the affairs of the tax-collectors. He occupied himself with some of 
those matters for a few days. Then he summoned al-Sindi b. Shahik and gave 
him his instructions with regard to (Musa). (He carried out his instructions. What 
he commissioned al-Sindi to do was to kill him, peace be on him, with poison 
which he put in the food he brought him. It is said that he put it in dates. (Misa) 
ate some of them and then felt the effect of the poison. He remained for three 
days in a fever from it and died on the third day.)” 


When Misa died, al-Sindi b. Shahik brought the jurists and notable men of 
Baghdad in (to see) him. Among them were al-Haytham b. ‘Adi and others. 
They saw that there was no mark of any wound on him, nor (any evidence) of 
strangulation. (Al-Sind1) made them give testimony that he had died normally. 
They testified to that. He was taken out and he was put on the bridge at Baghdad. 
Then an announcement was made: “This man Misa b. Ja‘far, peace be on him, 
has died. So come and look at him” 


The people began to come and look into (Misa’s) face while he was dead. For 
a group had claimed during the life of Mtisa that he was the awaited Imam (al- 
Muntazar) who would continue to undertake the Imamate for the rest of time 
(al-qa’im). They made his imprisonment the period of absence (al-ghayba) 
which had been reported concerning the last Imam (al-qda ‘im).”> Yahya b. Khalid 
ordered it to be announced at his death: “This is Musa b. Ja‘far whom the Rafidites 
claim is the last Imam (a/-qa’im) who will not die. So (come and) look at him.” 
The people saw that he was dead. Then he was carried away and buried in the 
cemetery of Quraysh at the Tin Gate. This cemetery had been used for Bant 
Hashim and the nobles of the people for a long time. 


It is reported that when he was about to die, he asked al-Sindt b. Shahik to bring 
him his retainer (maw/a) from Medina who was staying at the house of al-‘ Abbas 
b. Muhammad at the cane-market (mashra ‘at al-qasb). The latter should wash 


22 What is between brackets is not in Maqatil al-Talibiyyin. The method of killing is different. 
23 These are al-Mufid’s comments. 


427 


and shroud his body. (Al-Sindt) did that. 


Al-Sindi (later) reported: 

I (i.e. al-Sindi) asked him to permit me to shroud him but he refused. He said: 
“T am a member of the House (of the Prophet). The giving of dowries for our 
women, the performing of pilgrimages on behalf of those of us who have not 
made the pilgrimage, and the shrouding of our dead can only be performed by 
one of our retainers (mawlas) who is pure. I already have my shroud and I want 
the washing and preparation (of my body) to be carried out by my retainer so- 
and-so.” 


That was done for him. 


AN ACCOUNT OF THE NUMBER OF HIS SONS AND AN EXTRACT FROM THE 
REPORTS ABOUT THEM 


Abu al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, had thirty-seven children, male and 
female. They were: 
1. ‘Altb. Musa al-Rida, peace be on them. 


2. Ibrahim 
3. al-‘Abbas 
4. al-Qasim 
(Their mothers) were slave-wives (ummahdat awlad). 
5. Isma‘tl 
6. Ja‘far 
7. Harun 


8. al-Hasan 
(Their mother) was a slave-wife. 


9. Ahmad 
10. Muhammad 
11. Hamza 
(Their mother) was a slave-wife. 


12. ‘Abd Allah 
13. Ishaq 

14. ‘Ubayd Allah 
15. Zayd 

16. al-Hasan 

17. al-Fadl 


428 


18. al-Husayn 
19. Sulayman 
(Their mothers) were slave-wives. 


20. Fatima the elder 

21. Fatima the younger 

22. Ruqayya 

23. Hakima 

24. Umm Abtha 

25. Ruqayya the younger 

26. Umm Ja‘far 

27. Lubaba 

28. Zaynab 

29. Khadija 

30. ‘Aliyya 

31. ‘Amina 

32. Hasana 

33. Burayha 

34. ‘A’isha 

35. Umm Salama 

36. Maymiina 

37. Umm Kulthtm 
(Their mothers) were slave-wives. 


The most outstanding and celebrated of the children of Abt al-Hasan Musa, 
peace be on him, the greatest of them in rank, the most learned and the one in 
whom was gathered the most merit was Abt al-Hasan ‘Alt b. Misa al-Rida, 


peace be on him. 
ok 2 2 2K 


Ahmad b. Misa was noble, exalted and pious. Abu al-Hasan Misa, peace be on 
him, used to love him and showed him preference. He gave him his estate known 
as al-Yasira. It is said that Ahmad b. Misa, may Allah be pleased with him, freed 
a thousand slaves. 


[Al-Shartf Abi: Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad b. Yahya reported: My 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan) told me: I heard Isma‘Tl b. Misa say:] 

My father (Musa) went out with his children to one of his properties - he named 
the property but Abt al-Hasan Yahya forgot the name. We were in that place and 
with Ahmad b. Misa were twenty of my father’s servants and retinue. If Ahmad 
stood up, they stood up with him. If Ahmad sat down they sat down with him. 


429 


After that my father looked at him with a (loving) concern which could not be 


ignored. We did not depart until Ahmad went before us. 
ok 2 2 2K 


Muhammad b. Misa was a man of merit and righteousness. 


[Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad b. Yahya reported: My grandfather 
(Yahya b. al-Hasan) told me: Hashimiyya, a woman retainer of Ruqayya, 
daughter of Musa, said:] 

Muhammad b. Misa was a man of (continual) ritual ablution and prayer. 
Throughout the night, he used to perform ritual ablutions and pray. The sound of 
water pouring (for ablution) would be heard and he would pray for some of the 
night. Then he would be silent for an hour and then sleep. He would, then, rise 
and again the sound of water being poured for the ablution would be heard. Then 
he would again pray for some of the night. He would continue in this way until 
it was morning. I never saw him without remembering the words of Allah, the 


Exalted: They used to sleep only a little of the night (LI 17). 
OK 2 2 2K 


Ibrahim b. Misa was brave and noble. During al-Ma’min’s time he was invested 
with the governorship of Yemen by Muhammad b. Zayd b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn 
b. Abt Talib, peace be on them, to whom Abi Saraya had pledged allegiance 
at Kifa. He went there and conquered it. He resided there for a time until what 
happened to Abu Saraya happened. Then a safe-conduct was given to him by 
al-Ma’min. 


Each of the sons of Abu al-Hasan Misa had great merit and well-known rank. 
However, al-Rida was the foremost of them in merit as we have mentioned. 


430

[[p 33]]
CHAPTER VII 


IMAM ‘ALI B. MUSA AL-RIDA 


(This chapter gives) an account of the Imam who undertook (the office) (ga ‘im 
after Abu al-Hasan Musa, peace be on him, from among the latter’s children, 
(tells of) the date of his birth, the evidence for his Imamate, his age, the length 
of his succession, the time and cause of his death, the place of his grave, and the 
number of his children, and (it gives) a brief outline of the reports about him. 


The Imam who undertook (the office) (ga im) after Abt al-Hasan Misa b. Ja‘far, 
peace be on them, was his son, Abi al-Hasan ‘Ali b. Misa al-Rida, peace be on 
them, because of his merit over all his brothers and the members of his House 
(ahl baytihi), because of the knowledge, forbearance and piety which he showed, 
and which the Shi‘a (Adssa) and the non-Shi‘a (‘Gmma) agreed on with regard 
to him and recognised him for, and because of the nomination of him for the 
Imamate after (his father) by his father, peace be on him, and his indication of 
that (belonging) to him apart from the rest of his brothers and members of his 
House. 


He, peace be on him, was born in Medina in the year 148 A.H. (765). He died in 
Tus in the land of Khurasan in the month of Safar in the year 203 A.H. (818). At 
that time he was fifty-five years of age. His mother was a slave-wife called Umm 
al-Banin. The period of his Imamate and his undertaking the succession after his 
father was twenty years. 


Reports OF His NoMINATION (Nass) 


Among those of his coterie and trustworthy authorities, and men of piety, 
traditional knowledge and jurisprudence of his Shi‘a, who report the 
nomination of al-Rida ‘Ali b. Misa, peace be on them, for the Imamate by his 
father and his indication of him for that (are the following): Dawud b. Kathir 
al-Raqqi, Muhammad b. Ishaq b. ‘Ammar, ‘Ali b. Yaqtin, Nu‘aym al-Qabiisi, 
al-Husayn b. al-Mukhtar, Ziyad b. Marwan, al-Makhzimi, Dawud b. Sulayman, 
Nasr b. Qabtis, Dawud b. Zurbi, Yazid b. Sulayt and Muhammad b. Sinan. 


[Abt al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad b. Qulawayh informed me on the authority 
of Muhammad b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of Ahmad b. Mihran; on the authority 
of Muhammad b. ‘Alt, on the authority of Muhammad b. Sinan, and Isma‘Tl b. 
Ghiyath al-Qasri, on the authority of Dawud al-Raqqi, who said:]' 


1 Al-Kafi, I, 312, tradition no. 3. 


431 


I G.e. Dawud al-Raqqt) said to Abu Ibrahim (Misa), peace be on him: “May I 
be your ransom, I have grown old. So take my hand and save me from hell-fire. 
Who is our leader (sahib) after you?” 

“This is your leader after me,” he said and pointed to his son, Abii al-Hasan (al- 
Rida), peace be on him. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qib al-Kulayni, on the authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad, on the 
authority of al-Mu‘alla b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ahmad b. Muhammad 
b. ‘Abd Allah, on the authority of al-Hasan, on the authority of Ibn Abt ‘Umayr, 
on the authority of Muhammad b. Ishaq b. ‘Ammar, who said:]* 

I (i.e Muhammad b. Ishaq b. ‘Ammar) said to Abi al-Hasan the first (i.e. Musa), 
peace be on him: “Show me from whom I will take (instruction in) my religion.” 


“This son of mine, “Alt,” he said. “My father took my hand and took me to the 
tomb of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He said to 
me that Allah, may His name be exalted, had said: J make you a khalifa on earth 
(II 30), and that when Allah, the Exalted, says anything, carry it out.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya, on the authority of Ahmad 
b. Muhammad b. ‘Isa, on the authority of al-Hasan b. Mahbib, on the authority 
of al-Husayn b. Nu‘aym al-Sahhaf, who said:]° 

I (i.e. al-Husayn b. Nu‘aym), Hisham b. al-Hakam and ‘Ali b. Yaqtin were in 
Baghdad. ‘Ali b. Yaqtin said: 

I (i.e. ‘Alt b. Yaqtin) was with al-‘ Abd al-Salih (i.e. Musa), peace be on him, and 
he said: “This ‘Al7 is the lord of my children and I have given him my kunya (i.e. 
both were called Abt al-Hasan).” 


[In another narration:] Hisham struck his face with the palm of his hand and said: 
“Shame on you, how could you say that?” 

“By Allah, I heard it from him, just as I have said it,” replied ‘Alt b. Yaqtin. 
“Then, by Allah, the authority is for him after (Miisa),” said Hisham. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of a number of Companions, on the authority of 
Ahmad b. Muhammad b. ‘Isa, on the authority of Mu‘awiya b. Hukaym on the 
authority of Nu‘aym al-Qabisi, on the authority of Abt al-Hasan Misa:]* 

2 Al-Kafi, 1, 312, tradition no 4. 


3 Al-KGfi, I, 311, tradit ion no. 1. 
4 Al-Kafi, I, 311, tradition no. 2. 


432 


(Abii al- Hasan Musa) said: “My son ‘Ali, the eldest of my children, is the 
one most preferred by me and the one most loved by me. He examined the 
leather case (jafr) with me. Only a prophet or the testamentary trustee (wasi) of 
a prophet may examine it.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of Ahmad b. Mihran, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. ‘Al, on the authority of both Muhammad b. Sinan and ‘Alt b. al-Hakam, on 
the authority of al-Husayn b. al-Mukhtar, who said:]° 

The ordinances (alwah) came to us from Abt al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, 
while he was in prison: “My testament (‘ahd) to the eldest of my sons is that 
he should do such-and-such. As far as so-and-so is concerned, do not give him 
anything until you meet me or Allah decrees death for me.” 


[With the same chain of authorities (ismad) on the authority of Ahmad b. Mihran, 
on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘AIj, on the authority of Ziyad b. Marwan al- 
Qandi, who said:]° 

I (i.e. Ziyad b. Marwan al-Qandi) visited Abi Ibrahtm (Misa), peace be on him. 
With him was Abi al-Hasan (‘Alt al-Rida), his son. (Musa) said to me: “Ziyad, 
this is my son, so-and-so. His writing is my writing, his words are my words, his 
messenger is my messenger, and whatever he says, (the truth) is in what he says.” 


[With the same chain of authorities (isndd) on the authority of Ahmad b. 
Mihran, on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Alt, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. al-Fudayl, who said: al-Makhziimi told me, and his mother was one of the 
descendants of Ja‘far b. Abi Talib, peace be on him:]’ 

Abii al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him sent to us and we gathered. Then he said: 
“Do you know why I have summoned you?” 

“No,” we answered. 

“Witness that this son of mine is my testamentary trustee (wasi) and the one who 
will superintend my affair, my successor after me. Whoever has a debt (to be 
collected) from me, let him collect it from this son of mine. Whoever I have 
made a promise to, let him get its fulfilment from him. Whoever has to meet me, 
will only do so through his correspondence.” 


[With the same chain of authorities (isnad) on the authority of Muhammad b. 
‘Alt, on the authority of Abi ‘Alt al-Khazzaz, on the authority of Dawud b. 
Sulayman who said: ]$ 

5 Al-Kafi, 1, 312-3, rradition no. 8. 

6 AL-KGfi, I, 312, tradition no. 6. 


7 Al-K@fi, I, 312, tradition no. 7. 
8 Al-KGfi, I, 313, tradition no. 11. 


433 


I (.e. Dawud b. Sulayman) said to Abi Ibrahim (Misa), peace be on him: “I am 
afraid that something may happen and I will not (be able to) meet you. So tell me 
who the Imam is after you.” 

“My son so-and-so,” he said meaning Abi al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be on him. 


[With the same chain of authorities (isnad) on the authority of Ibn Mihran, on the 
authority of Muhammad b. ‘Alt, on the authority of Sa‘id b. Abi al-Jahm, on the 
authority of Nasr b. Qabiis, who said:]? 

I Ge. Nasr b. Qabtis) said to Abu Ibrahim (Misa), peace be on him: “I have 
asked your father who would be after him and he told me that you would be. 
Therefore when Abu ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be on him, died, the 
people went to right and left while I and my companions declared (our support) 
for you. Therefore tell me which of your children will be (the Imam) after you.” 
“My son, so-and-so,” he said. 


[With the same chain of authorities (isndd) on the authority of Muhammad b. 
‘Alt, on the authority of al-Dahhak b. al-Ash‘ath, on the authority of Dawud b. 
Zurbi who said:]!° 

I (i.e. Dawud b. Zurb1) brought some money to Abt Ibrahim (Musa), peace be on 
him. He took some of it and left some of it. 

“May Allah set you right,” I said, “why have you left it with me?” 

“The one who will be in charge of this authority (sahib hadhda al-amr) will ask 
you for it,” he told me. 


When the news of his death came, Abi al-Hasan al-Rida. peace be on him, sent 
to me and asked me for that money and I paid it to him. 


[With the same chain of authorities (ismad) on the authority of Ahmad b. Mihran, 
on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘AIj, on the authority of ‘Ali b. al-Hakam, on 
the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. Ibrahim b. ‘Alt b. ‘Abd Allah b. Ja‘far b. Abi Talib, 
on the authority of Yazid b. Sulayt in a long tradition (hadith) on the authority of 
Abi Ibrahim Misa, peace be on him:]!! 

(Musa) said in the year in which he died: “I will be taken in this year and the 
authority (amr) will belong to my son ‘Alt, who is named after two ‘Alts. 
The first ‘Alt is ‘Alt b. Abt Talib and the second ‘Alt is ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, the 
blessings of Allah be on them. He (i.e. ‘Ali al-Rida) has been given the 
understanding, forbearance, knowledge, help, love, piety and religion of the first 
and tribulation, and endurance in the face of adversity of the second.” 


9 Al-Kafi, 1, 313, rradition no. 12. 


10 Al-KGfi, I, 313, tradition no. 13. 
11 Al-Ka@fi, I, 313-16, tradition no. 14. 


434 


[(This) was in a long tradition] 

[Aba al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ya‘qtib, on the authority of Muhammad b. al-Hasan, on the 
authority of Sahl b. Ziyad, on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Alt, on the 
authority of ‘Ubayd Allah b. al-Marzuban, on the authority of Ibn Sinan, who 
said: ]'? 

I (i.e. Muhammad b. Sinan) visited Abt al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him, the 
year before he went to Iraq. ‘Alt, his son, was sitting in front of him. He looked 
at me and said: “Muhammad, this year there will be some disturbance but do not 
be worried by that.” 

“May Allah make me your ransom, what will that be?” I asked him, for he had 
filled me with anxiety. 

“T will go to this despot,” he answered, “ but he will not receive any evil from me 
nor from the one who will be after me.” 

“May Allah make me your ransom, what will happen?” I asked. 

“Allah leads astray the oppressors,” he told me, “and Allah does what he wishes.” 
“May Allah make me your ransom, what is this?” I said. 


“Whoever wrongs the right of this son of mine and denies his Imamate after me 
is like those who wronged ‘Ali b. Abt Talib, peace be on him, and denied his 
right after the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family,” he replied. 


“Tf Allah supports me in my life, may I submit to his right and declare (my belief 
in) his Imamate,” I said. 

“True, Muhammad,” he said. “Allah will support you during your life and you 
will submit to his right and declare (your belief in) his Imamate, and the Imamate 
of the one who will be (Imam) after him.” 

“Who will that be?” I asked. 

“His son, Muhammad,” he answered. 

I said: “(I give) consent (rida) and submission to him.” 


A SAMPLE OF THE PROOFS CONCERNING HIM AND THE REPORTS ABOUT HIM. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qtib, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya, on the authority of Ahmad 
b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ibn Mahbib, on the authority of Hisham b. 
Ahmad, who said:]° 

Abid al-Hasan the first (Musa), peace be on him, said to me: “Did you know that 
one of the people from al-Maghrib has come?” 


12 Al-KGfi, 1, 319, tradilion no. 16. 
13 Al-KGfi, 1, 486-7, tradition no. 1. 


435 


“No,” I answered. 
“Indeed,” he said, “a man from the people of al-Maghrib has come to Medina. 
So come with us.” 


He rode off and I rode with him until we came to the man. There he was, a man 
of al-Maghrib. He had with him slave-girls. 
“Show us your wares,” I told him . 


He showed us seven good slave-girls. But all the time Abii al-Hasan, peace be 
on him, was saying: “I have no need of those.” Then he told him, “Show us 
something else.” 

“T have nothing except a sick slave-girl,” he replied 

“What is (wrong) with you (not) to offer her (for sale),” he said. 


The man refused and went away. On the next day (Abi al-Hasan Misa) sent 
for me and told me: “Ask him how much is the maximum he wants for her. 
Whatever he says, tell him that you will take her.” 

I went to him and he said: “I would not take less than such-and-such a sum.” 

“T will take her,” I said. 

“She is yours,” he replied. “But tell me about the man who was with you 
yesterday.” 

“He was a man from the Bant Hashim,” I told him . 

“Which Banu Hashim?” he asked . 

“T don’t have more (information) than this,” I answered. 


Then he said: “I will tell you that when I bought her, from a remote area of 
al-Maghrib, a woman from afl al-kitab (the people of the Book, i.e. Jews and 
Christians) met me and asked me who this maidservant was whom I had with 
me. I told her that I had bought her for myself, but she said it was not appropriate 
that she should be with the like of me. It is fitting that this slave-girl should be 
with the best person on earth, for she will soon give birth to a son such as has not 
been born in the east or the west.” 


I took her to Abi al-Hasan (Misa). It was not long afterwards that she gave birth 
to al-Rida, peace be on him. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qtb al-Kulayni on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya, on the authority 
of Ahmad b. Muhammad, on the authority of Safwan b. Yahya who said:]!* 

When Abu Ibrahim (Musa), peace be on him, died and Abi al-Hasan al-Rida, 


14 Al-KaGfi, 1, 487, tradition no. 2. 


436 


peace be on him, spoke, we were afraid for him. He was told: “You have made 
public a great matter and on account of that, we fear for you from this tyrant (i.e. 
al-Rashid).” 

“Let him try as hard as he can.” he answered. “He will find no way to harm me.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qib, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ibn Jamhtr, 
on the authority of Ibrahim b. ‘Abd Allah, on the authority of Ahmad b. ‘Ubayd 
Allah, on the authority of al-Ghiffart, who said:]!° 

A man from the family of Abt Rafi‘, the retainer of the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, called so-and-so, had me in his debt. He 
demanded payment from me and insisted on my paying him. When I realised 
that, I prayed the morning prayer in the mosque of the Apostle of Allah, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, and I set out to see al-Rida, peace be on him, 
On that day, he was in the valley of al-‘Arid. When I got near his door, he came 
out on a donkey. He was wearing a shirt and a cloak (rida@’). When I looked at 
him, I felt ashamed before him. When he reached me, he stood and looked at me. 
I greeted him - it was the month of Ramadan. I said: “May I be your ransom, 
your retainer so-and-so has me in his debt. By Allah, he has spread reports of me 
around.” 


By Allah, I was thinking to myself, that he would tell him to leave me alone. By 
Allah, I had not told him how much I owed nor had I given specific details about 
anything. He told me to sit down until he came back. I was still there at the time 
when I prayed the sunset prayer. I had been fasting and I had become troubled 
and wanted to leave. Suddenly he came. There were (a crowd of) people around 
him. 


Beggars were begging from him and he was giving them alms. Then he retired 
from them and went into his house. He came out and called me. I rose and went 
in with him. He sat down and I sat down with him. I began to talk to him about 
Ibn Musayyib (the governor of Medina). Often I used to tell him about him. 
When I had finished, he said to me: “I don’t think that you have eaten yet” 
“No,” I replied. 


He called for food for me and it was put in front of me. He told the servant to eat 
with me. The servant and I had our fill of food. When we had finished, he said: 
“Raise the cushion and take what is under it” 


I raised it and there were (many) dinars, I took them and put them in my sleeve. 
15 Al-KGfi, 1, 487-8, tradition no. 4. The man from the family of Abt Rafi‘ is identified as Tays. 


437 


He told four of his slaves to accompany me to my house. I said to him: “May I 
be your ransom, the spy of Ibn Musayyib (the governor of Medina) will be sitting 
(there) and I would hate him to see me while I was with your slaves.” 

“True,” he said, “may Allah direct you with guidance.” 


Then he told them that they should leave whenever I sent them back. When I 
was near my house and I could see it, I sent them back. I went to my house and 
called for a lamp. I examined the dmars and there were forty-eight dmars. I 
only owed the man twenty-eight dmars. Among them was a dinar which shone 
greatly. Its beauty delighted me and I picked it up and took it nearer the lamp. 
On it was clearly engraved: “The debt to the man is twenty-eight dmars and the 
rest is yours.” 


No, by Allah, I had not informed him of the precise amount of my debt. 


[Abi al-Qasim informed me on the authority of Muhammad b. Ya‘qub on the 
authority of ‘Ali b. Ibrahim. on the authority of his father, on the authority of 
some of his colleagues, on the authority of Abi al-Hasan al-Rida, peace be on 
him:]'° 

He (ie al-Rida) left Medina to make the pilgrimage in the year in which Hartn 
made the pilgrimage. He came to a mountain called Fari‘ on the left of the road. 
Abi al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be on him, looked at the mountain and said: 
“Fari‘, the one who destroys (a resting place in you) will be cut limb from limb.” 


We did not know what that meant. When Harin reached that place he stopped 
there. Ja‘far b. Yahya went up the mountain and ordered a resting-place to be 
set up for him. On his return from Mecca, Ja‘far b. Yahya went back up the hill 
and ordered it to be destroyed. When he got to Iraq, Ja‘far b. Yahya was cut limb 
from limb. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of Ahmad b. Muhammad, on the authority of 
Muhammad b. al-Hasan, on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Isa, on the authority 
of Muhammad b. Hamza b. al-Haytham, on the authority of Ibrahim b. Misa. 
who said:]!” 

I Ge Ibrahim b. Misa) kept worrying Abi al-Hasan al-Rida about something I 
needed from him and he would promise me (that I would get it). One day he set 
out to meet the governor of Medina. I went with him. He reached the vicinity of 
the palace of so-and-so, and stopped there under some trees. I stopped with him. 


16 Al-KGfi, 1, 488, tradition no. 5. 
17 AL-KG@fi, 1. 488. tradit ion no. 6. 


438 


There was no one else with us. I said to him: “May I be your ransom, the festival 
is drawing near and, by Allah, I don’t even possess a dirham.” 


He scratched the earth vigorously with his whip, Then he struck it with his hand 
and took out of it an ingot of gold. Then he said: “Use this but keep secret what 
you have seen .” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad, on the authority of 
Mu‘alla b. Muhammad, on the authority of Musafir, who said:]!* 

I (i.e. Musafir) was with Abt al-Hasan al-Rida, peace be on them, at Mina. (AI- 
Fadl b.) Yahya b. Khalid passed by and covered his face (to escape) from the 
dust. al-Rida peace be on him, said: “Wretched ones who do not know what 
will happen to them during this year!” Then he added: “The most surprising 
(thing will be what happens to) Hariin. The two of them (i.e. (Al-Fadl b.) Yahya 
b. Khalid and Harwin) will be like these two.” Then he joined his two fingers 
together. 


[Musafir reported: | 
By Allah, I did not understand the meaning of his statement until we buried 


(Harn) together with (al-Fadl). 
ok 2 2 2 


Al-Ma’min had sent for a group of the family of Abt Talib and had them brought 
to him from Medina.” al-Rida ‘Alt b. Misa, peace be on them, was among them. 
They were taken along the road to Basra until they were brought there. The man 
in charge of their journey was known as (‘Isa) al-Juliidi. He brought them to al- 
Ma’min and the latter put them in a house. He put al-Rida ‘Ali b. Mtisa, peace 
be on them, in a house and showed him hospitality and great respect. Then al- 
Ma’min sent for him, (saying): “I want to rid myself of the caliphate and vest the 
office in you. What is your opinion?” 


al-Rida, peace be on him, refused this offer, saying: “I seek refuge for you with 
Allah from such words, and that anyone should hear of it, Commander of the 
faithful” 


Al-Ma’min repeated (the offer) in a letter, which said: “If you refuse what 1 
have offered you, then you must accept being the heir after me.” 


18 Al-KGfi, 1, 491, tradition no. 9. This account is in the second half of the tradition. 

19 Elements of this account are in Maqatil al-Talibiyyin, 562-3. The version of Yahya b. al-Hasan 
who is one of the authorities for Abt al-Faraj’s composite account may be the version al-Mufid 
is using. 


439 


al-Rida refused him vigorously. Al-Ma’mtn summoned him. He was alone 
with al-Fad1 b. Sahl, the man with two offices (i.e. military and civil). There 
was no one else in their gathering. (al-Ma’min) said to (al-Rida): “I thought it 
appropriate to invest authority over the Muslims in you and to relieve myself of 
responsibility by giving it to you.” 


“Allah! Allah!” replied al-Rida, peace be on him. “Commander of the faithful, I 
have no ability or power for that.” 

“Then I will designate you as successor after me,” retorted al-Ma’min. 
“Commander of the faithful, exempt me from that.” 


Then al-Ma’min spoke to him as if threatening him for his refusal. In his speech, 
he said: “‘Umar b. al-Khattab made a committee of consultation (shirda) (to 
appoint a successor). Among them was your fore-father, the Commander of the 
Faithful, ‘Alt b. Abi Talib. (“Umar) stipulated that any of them who opposed the 
decision should be executed. So there is no escape for you from accepting what 
I want from you. I will ignore your rejection of it.” 


“T will agree to what you want of me as far as succession is concerned,” 
answered al-Rida, peace be on him, “on condition that I do not command, nor 
order, nor give legal decisions, nor judge, nor appoint, nor dismiss, nor change 
anything from how it is at present.” 

Al-Ma’min accepted all of that. 


[Al-Shartf Abt. Muhammad al-Hasan b. Muhammad informed me: My 
grandfather (Yahya b. al-Hasan) told us: Misa b. Salama told me:] 

I (ec. Musa b. Salama) was in Khurasan with Muhammad b. Ja‘far. I heard that 
the man with two offices (i.e. al-fadl b. Sahl, who was in charge of the military 
and civil administration) had gone out one day saying: “How fantastic, I have 
seen a wonder. Ask me what I have seen?” 

They asked him: “What have you seen, may Allah set you right?” 


“T have seen al-Ma’miin, the Commander of the faithful,” he answered, 
“saying to ‘Alt b. Musa: ‘I will invest you with the affairs of the Muslims. I 
relieve myself of my responsibility and make it yours.’ Then I saw ‘Ali b. Musa 
saying: “Commander of the faitful. I have no ability or power for that’. I have 
never seen the caliphate more abandoned than that. The Commander of the 
faithful deprives himself of it and offers it to ‘Ali b. Misa. Then ‘Ali b. Misa 
rejects it and refuses it.” 


[A group of historians (ashab al-akhbar) and biographers (ruwat al-siyar) of the 


440 


times of the caliphs report:]?° 

al-Ma’miin wanted the agreement (‘agd) of al-Rida ‘Ali b. Musa and he 
considered that matter for himself. He summoned al-Fadl b. Sahl into his 
presence and informed him about what he had decided upon concerning that. He 
told him to meet with his brother, al-Hasan b. Sahl, about that matter. The two 
met in his presence. Al-Hasan began to become distressed with him for that and 
to make him aware (of the disadvantages) of taking the position out of his own 
family and (giving it) to him. 


Al-Ma’min told him: “I have promised Allah that if I succeed in giving up the 
caliphate, I would leave it for the most meritorious (afdal) of the family of Abu 
Talib. I do not know anyone more meritorious than this man on the face of the 
earth.” 


When al-Hasan and al-Fadl saw his determination to do that, they held back 
their opposition to it. He sent them to al-Rida, peace be on him, and they offered 
that to him. He refused but they persisted until he accepted. They returned to 
al-Ma’mitn and informed him of (al-Rida’s) acceptance. He was delighted with 
that. On Thursday he held a meeting for his personal entourage (khassa). Al-Fadl 
b. Sahl came and informed (them) of al-Ma’miin’s decision concerning ‘Ali b. 
Misa, peace be on him, and that he had appointed him his successor and named 
him al-Rida (consent). He ordered them to dress in green and to come back next 
Thursday for the pledge of allegiance and receive a year’s rations. 


On that day, the people rode in their respective ranks - the military commanders, 
the chamberlains, the judges and the others all wearing green. Al-Ma’mtin was 
seated and he had had two great cushions placed for al-Rida peace be on him, so 
that he would have the same kind of seat and covers. He seated al-Rida, peace 
be on him, on them; he was dressed in green and wearing a turban and a sword. 
Then al-Ma’min ordered his son, ‘Abbas b. al-Ma’min, to be the first of the 
people to make the pledge of allegiance to him. al-Rida, peace be on him, moved 
his hand and hit his own face with the back of it and their faces with the palm. 


“Stretch out your hand for the pledge of allegiance,” al-Ma’mitin demanded. 
“The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, used to make the 
pledge in this way when the people pledged allegiance to him,” retorted al-Rida, 
peace be on him. “His hand would be above their hands.” 


Ten thousand dirhams were laid out. Orators and poets rose and began to mention 
the great merit of al-Rida, peace be on him, and the part played by al-Ma’mtn 


20 The following account follows much more closely Magatil al-Talibiyyin, 562-5. 


441 


in his affair. Then Aba ‘Abbad summoned al-‘Abbas b. al-Ma’min. He Jumped 
up and approached his father. He kissed his hand and the latter ordered him to sit 
down. Then Muhammad b. Ja‘far b. Muhammad was summoned. 

“Rise,” al-Fadl b. Sahl told him. 


He rose and went towards al-Ma’min but he did not kiss his hand. He was told 
to go and take his gift. Then al-Ma’min called to him: “Go back, Abi Ja‘far, to 
your seat.” 


Then Abt ‘Abbad began to call individual ‘Alids and ‘Abbasids and give them 
their gifts until the money was all used up. After that al-Ma’min told al-Rida. 
peace be on him: “Address the people and speak to them.” 


He praised and glorified Allah. Then he said: “We have a right due to us from 
you through the Apostle of Allah and you also have a right due to you from us 
through him. If you carry out your duty to us, then it is necessary for us to carry 
out our duty to you.” 


Nothing other than this is mentioned of him at this gathering. Al-Ma’min 
ordered a dirham to be struck with the name of al- Rida, peace be on him, upon it. 


(Al-Ma’mitin) married Ishaq b. Misa b. Ja‘far to the daughter of his paternal 
uncle, Ishaq b. Ja‘far b. Muhammad. He told him to lead the pilgrimage for the 
people and to speak of the position of al-Rida as heir apparent in every town (he 
passed through). 


[Ahmad b Muhammad b. Sa‘id reported: Yahya b. al-Hasan al-‘Alawi told me: 
One who heard ‘Abd al-Hamid"! preach in that year on the pulpit of the Apostle 
of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, in Medina, said:] 

He said in his prayer: “The heir apparent of the Muslims is ‘Ali b. Musa b. Ja‘far 
b. Muhammad b. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn b. ‘Alt, peace be on them, He has six fathers 
who are the best men who ever drank the rain water from the clouds.” 


[Al-Mada’ini mentioned on the authority of his authorities:] 

When al-Rida ‘Alt b. Misa, peace be on them sat in the robes of the heir 
apparent, orators and poets stood before them. The standard shook above his 
head . 


[Then al-Mada’ini mentioned on the authority of one of the close associates of 
al-Rida, peace be on him, who was present, that he said:] 


21 ‘Abd al-Jabbar b. Sa‘td in Magatil al-Talibiyyin, 565. 


442 


On that day I (i.e. a close associate of al-Rida) was in front of him. He looked 
at me while I was feeling happy about what had happened. He signalled me to 
come closer, I went closer to him and he said so that no one else could hear: 
“Do not occupy your heart with this matter and do not be happy about it. It is 
something which will not be achieved.” 


Among the poets who came to him, was Di‘bil b. ‘Alt al-Khuza‘i, may Allah 
have mercy on him. When he visited him, he said: “I have composed an ode and 
have bound myself not to recite it to anyone before you.” 


He told him to sit down until the gathering around him had decreased. Then he 
said: “Come now.” 


So he recited his ode to him, the opening of which is: 
Schools of verses of the Qur’an are without recitation, 
The place of inspiration is (like) courtyards without people. 


(He recited the poem) to the end. When he had finished reciting it, al-Rida stood 
up and went into his room. Then he sent a servant out to him with a silken purse 
in which was six hundred dinars. He told the servant to tell him: “Use this to help 
you on your journey and forgive us .” 


“No, by Allah,” replied Di‘bil, “I do not want this. I have not come for it. But tell 
him: Give me one of your robes.” 


He gave the purse back to the servant and the servant gave it back to al-Rida, 
peace be on him, and (al-Rida) said: “Take it (back).” 

However, (al-Rida) also sent one of his robes to (Di‘bil) and he went off until 
he came to Qumm. When (the people there) saw the robe, they offered him a 
thousand dinars for it. He refused them, saying: “By Allah, not even a piece of 
cloth from it is sufficient for a thousand dinars.” Then he left Qumm. However. 
they followed him and waylaid him and took the robe. So he went back to Qumm 
and spoke to them about it. They said: “There is no way (for you) to get it. 
However, if you want, here is a thousand dinars.” 

“And a piece of cloth from it?” he asked. 

They gave him a thousand dinars. . 


[‘Alt b. Ibrahtm reported on the authority of Yasir, the servant and al-Rayyan b. 
al-Salt]?? 

At the time of the festival, when the agreement for al-Rida, peace be on him, 
22 AI-K@fi, 1, 488-490, tradition no. 7. the first part of the tradition has been omitted. 


443 


to assume the position of heir apparent had been made, al-Ma’miin sent to him 
about the procession for the festival, the prayer before the people and the sermon 
to them. Al-Rida, peace be on him, sent back to him (a message saying): “You 
know about the conditions made between us (for me) to enter into this affair. 
Therefore excuse me from saying the prayer before the people.” 

“T only intend by that that the people’s heart should be assured and that they 
should know your great merit,” al-Ma’min replied. 


The messengers went back and forth between them over that matter. When al- 
Ma’min insisted that al-Rida should do it, the latter sent to him (a message 
saying): “If you had excused me, I would have preferred it. However, since you 
have not excused me. I will go out as the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, went out and the Commander of the Faithful, ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, 
peace be on him.” 


“Go out as you wish,” replied al-Ma’miin. Then he ordered the military 
commanders, the chamberlains and the people to go to the door of al-Rida, peace 
be on him, early in the morning. 


The people sat (waiting) for Abt al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be on him, in the 
roads and on the roof-tops. Women and children gathered to wait for him to come 
out. All the military commanders and the soldiers went to his door and waited 
on their mounts until the sun rose. (Then) Abt al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be on 
him, washed and put on his clothes. He put on a white turban of cotton. One end 
of it he made hang on his breast and the other between his shoulders. Then he 
rubbed himself with a little perfume. He took his staff in his hand and said to his 
retainers: “Do whatever I do.” 


They went on in front of him. He was barefoot and had tucked his trousers 
half-way up his leg, and his (other) clothes were tucked in. He walked a little 
way. Then he raised his head towards heaven and said: “Allah is greater (Allahu 
akbar)” and his retainers repeated it with him. Then he went on until he stood at 
the door. When the military commanders and the soldiers saw him (coming) in 
that way, they all dismounted from their animals to the ground. The best of them 
in these circumstances were those who had a knife with which they could cut the 
leather strap of their sandals and could take them off and go barefoot. 


AI-Rida, peace be on him, said at the door: “Allah is greater (Allahu akbar)’, and 
the people repeated it with him 


It seemed to us that the sky and the walls were answering him and that Merv 


444 


shook with weeping and clamour. When they saw Abi al-Hasan (al-Rida) and 
heard him magnifying Allah and al-Ma’mtn was informed of that, al-Fad1 b. 
Sahl, the man with two offices (military and civil), told him: “Commander of 
the faithful, if al-Rida reaches the place of prayer for the festival in this way, 
the people will break out in rebellion. We are all afraid for our lives. So send 
instructions to him to go back.” 


Al-Ma’min sent (a message) to him (which said): “We have put an excessive 
burden on you and we have made you very tired. We do not want you to 
experience any hardship. Therefore, go back and let someone pray with the 
people in the usual manner.” 


Abi al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be on him, called for his boots and put them on. 
Then he mounted and went back. 


The situation of the people was full of discord on that day about their prayer and 
whether it had not been properly performed. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qtib, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Ibrahim, on the authority of Yasir, who 
said: |” 

When al-Ma’min decided to leave Khurasan for Baghdad, al-Fadl b. Sahl, the 
man with two offices (military and civil), went with him and we went with Abia 
al-Hasan al-Rida, peace be on him. A letter came to al-Fadl b. Sahl from his 
brother, al-Hasan b. Sahl, while we were at one of the halting-places (which 
said): “I have been investigating the (future of the coming) year. I have found 
in it that during such-and-such a month on Wednesday you will experience the 
heat of the iron blade (stuck into you) and the heat of the fire. I think that you, 
the Commander of the faithful and al-Rida should go to the baths on that day and 
should be cupped and that you should pour the blood over your body in order to 
remove the evil (of that day).” 


The man with two offices (military and civil) (i.e. al-Fadl b. Sahl) wrote to al- 
Ma’min and asked him to ask Abi al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be on him, to do 
that. Al-Ma’min wrote to Abt al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be on him, to ask him 
about it. Abt al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be on him answered: “I will not go into 
the baths tomorrow.” 


Al-Ma’min sent the letter twice again and Abi al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be 
on him, wrote to him: “I will not go into the baths tomorrow. Last night, I had 


23 Al-K@fi, I. 490-1, traditIon no. 8. 


445 


a vision of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family. He told 
me: ‘“‘Ali, do not go into the baths tomorrow.’ Therefore, Commander of the 
faithful, I do not think that it would be wise for you and al-Fad1 to go into the 
baths tomorrow.” 


Al-Ma’min wrote back to him: “ You are right, Abt al-Hasan (al-Rida) and the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, is right. I will not go into 
the baths tomorrow. However, al-Fad1 will make up his own mind.” 


[Yasir reported] 
In the evening when the Sun had set, al-Rida, peace be on him, said to us: “Say: 
We seek refuge with Allah from the evil which comes tonight.” 


We continued to repeat that. After al-Rida, peace be on him, had performed 
the morning prayer, he told me: “Go up to the roof and listen whether you can 
discover something.” 


When I went up I heard a cry. It became more frequent and increased in intensity. 
Yet we did not experience anything. We were still there. Al-Ma’mtin came in 
by the door which connected his house to the house of Abi al-Hasan (al-Rida), 
peace be on him, saying: “My lord, Abi al-Hasan, may Allah lengthen your life 
(as a result of the loss of) al-Fadl. He went into the baths and some people came 
in upon him with swords and killed him. Of those who attacked him, three were 
apprehended. One of them was al-Fadl’s cousin by his mother’s sister, the son of 
the man with two pens (i.e. he held two vizierates).” 


The soldiers, the military commanders gathered and al-Fadl’s men gathered at 
the gate of al-Ma’mitn. They said: “He (i.e. al-Ma’miin) has assassinated him.” 
They reviled him and demanded his blood. They brought fire to set the gate 
alight. 


Al-Ma’min said to Abi al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be on him: “My lord, would 
you consider going out to them and quietening them down so that they go away.” 


“Yes,” replied Abt al-Hasan (al-Rida), and mounted. He told me: “Yasir, mount.” 
I mounted.When we went out of the house, I looked at the people. They had 
crowded around him. He indicated to them with his hand that they should depart. 


[Yasir reported: ] 


By Allah. the people began to fall over each other. He did not point to one of 
them, except that man ran away and departed directly. 


446 


[Aba al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me, on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ya‘qib, on the authority of Mu‘alla b. Muhammad, on the 
authority of Musafir, who said:]** 

When Harin b. al-Musayyib wanted to attack Muhammad b. Ja‘far, Abi al- 
Hasan al-Rida, peace be on him, said to me (i.e. Musafir): “Go and tell him 
(Muhammad b. Ja‘far): ‘Do not go out tomorrow, you will be put to flight and 
your companions will be killed.’ If he asks you from where you learnt this, tell 
him that you saw it in a dream.” 


I went to him and told him: “Do not go out tomorrow. If you go out tomorrow, 
you will be put to flight and your companions will kill you.” 

“Where did you learn this?” he asked me. 

“T saw it in my sleep,” I replied. 

“The slave only dreams when he has not washed his buttocks,” he retorted. Then 


he went out and was put to flight and his companions were killed. 
28K OK 


AN EXTRACT FROM THE REPORTS ABOUT THE DEATH OF AL-RIDA ‘ALI B. 
MisA, PEACE BE ON THEM, AND ABOUT ITS CAUSE 


Whenever al-Rida ‘Ali b. Misa, peace be on them, was alone with al-Ma’ min, 
he used to give him many warnings; he would endeavour to make him fear Allah 
and show him the foul crimes he had committed during his caliphate. Al-Ma’mitin 
would pretend to accept it but inside him he began to hate it and find it difficult 
to bear. One day al-Rida, peace be on him, visited al-Ma’mtn and saw him 
performing the ablutions for prayer. A servant was pouring water on to his hand. 
“Commander of the faithful, don’t let anyone participate in your act of worship 
to your Lord,” he, peace be on him, told him. 


Al-Ma’miin sent the servant away and finished his ablutions by himself. 
However, that increased his rage and anger. Also, al-Rida, peace be on him, used 
to disparage al-Hasan and al-Fadl b. Sahl before al-Ma’miin whenever the latter 
mentioned the two; he would describe them both in the same terms and would 
(encourage him) not to listen to their advice. They were both aware of that and 
they began to seek favour for themselves with (al-Ma’min) against (al-Rida); 
they would mention anything which might isolate al-Rida from al-Ma’miin and 
make the latter fear the people’s attitude towards him. They continued in this 
way until they had changed (al-Ma’mitin’s) opinion of (al-Rida) and made him 
act to kill him. 


24 Al-Kaft, 1, 490, tradition no. 9. Al-Husayn b. Yahya - al-Kulayni’s informant - has been omitted 
from the isnad. Only the first half of the tradition is reported. The second half was given earlier 


447 


It happened one day that (al-Rida) and al-Ma’min ate together. al-Rida fell ill 
from the food and al-Ma’min pretended to be sick.” 


[Muhammad b. ‘Ali b. Hamza mentioned on the authority of Mansir b. Bashir. 
on the authority of his brother ‘Abd Allah b. Bashir, who said:]”° 

Al-Ma’min ordered me (i.e ‘Abd Allah b. Bashir) to grow my finger-nails longer 
than was usual and not to let anyone know of that. I did so. Then he summoned 
me. He brought out for me something like tamarind and said “Knead these all 
together with your hand.” 


After I had done so, he stood up and left me. He went to al-Rida, peace be on 
him. and said: “What is your news?” 

“T hope that I am well,” was the reply. 

“Today, I am also well, praise be to Allah,” al-Ma’min said. “Has one of the 
servants come to you today?” 

“No,” he answered. 


Al-Ma’min was angry and called out to his servants. Then he said: “Take some 
pomegranate juice now. It is one of the things one should not do without.” 
Then he called me and said to me: “Squeeze it with your own hand.” 


I did so and al-Ma’min gave it to al-Rida, peace be on him, to drink with his 
own hand. That was the cause of his death. It was only two days later when he, 
peace be on him, died. 


[It is mentioned on the authority of Abt al-Salt al-Haraw1, who said:] 

I (i.e. Abii al-Salt al-Harawi) went into al-Rida, peace be on him. Al-Ma’mitn 
came out from his room. He said to me: “Abi al-Salt, they have done it.” Then 
he began to declare the unity of Allah and to magnify Him. 


[It is reported on the authority of Muhammad b. al-Jahm that he said:] 

al-Rida used to like grapes. He (al-Ma’mitn) got some for him and had needles 
prodded into them at the place of their storks. I (Muhammad b. al-Jahm) took 
them from him and they were brought to (al-Rida) and he ate them, while he was 
ill with the illness which we have already mentioned. It was said that that was 


caused by the subtlest of poisons. 
OK 2K 2 2 3 


When al-Rida, peace be on him, died, al-Ma’min kept his death secret for a day 


25 cf. Magatil al-Talibiyyin, 565-6 
26 Maqatil, 566-7. 


448 


and a night. Then he sent to Muhammad b. Ja‘far al-Sadiq, peace be on him, and 
a group of the family of Abia Talib who were with him. When they came into 
his presence, he announced the news of al-Rida’s death to them. He wept and 
gave an appearance of intense grief and pain. He showed them al-Rida (whose) 
body was healthy (even in death), saying: “My brother, it is hard on me to see 
you in this state. I had hoped that I would go before you. However, Allah refused 
(everything) except what He wanted.” 


Then he ordered his body to be washed, shrouded and perfumed. He went out 
with the bier carrying it until he reached the place where it was to be buried and 
buried it there. The place was the house of Hartin b. Quhtaba in a village called 
Sanabad near Nawgan in the area of Tus. There was the tomb of Harin al-Rashid 
and the tomb of Abi al-Hasan (al-Rida) is in front of it in its direction towards 
Mecca (qgibla). 


al-Rida ‘Ali b. Misa died without leaving any child we know of, except his son, 


the Imam after him, Abt: Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘Alt, peace be on them. At the 
time of his death, his son was seven years old and a few months. 


449

[[p 34]]
CHAPTER VIII 


IMAM MUHAMMAD B. ‘ALI AL-JAWAD 


(This chapter gives) will deal with the Imam after Abi al-Hasan ‘Ali b. Musa 
al-Rida, peace be on them; (including) the date of his birth, the evidence for 
his Imamate, the period of his succession and his age. (It will also mention) his 
death and the cause of it, the place of his grave, the number of his children and 
an outline of the reports about him. 


The Imam after al-Rida ‘AlT b. Misa, peace be on them, was his son Muhammad 
b. ‘Ali al-Rida, peace be on them, by virtue of his nomination and indication by 
his father. Outstanding merit attained perfection in him. He, peace be on him, 
was born in the month of Ramadan, in the year 195 A.H. (811) at Medina and 
he died in Baghdad in the month of Dhi al-Qa‘da in the year 220 A.H.(835). At 
that time he was twenty-five years of age. The period of his succession and his 
Imamate after his father was seventeen years. His mother was a slave-wife (umm 
walad) called Sabtka, she was a Nubian. 


AN OUTLINE OF THE NOMINATION AND INDICATION OF ABU JA‘FAR 
MUHAMMAD B. ‘ALI FOR THE IMAMATE BY HIS FATHER 


Among those who report the nomination for the Imamate by Abit al-Hasan ‘Alt 
b. Musa al-Rida, peace be on him, of his son Abu Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be 
on him, are: ‘Alt b. Ja‘far b. Muhammad al-Sadiq, peace be on them, Safwan b. 
Yahya, Mu‘ammar b. Khallad, al-Husayn b. Bashshar, Ibn Abi Nasr al-Bizantt, 
Ibn Qayama al-Wasiti, al-Hasan b. al-Jahm, Abi Yahya al-San‘ani, al-Khayrant 
and Yahya b. Habib al-Zayyat. (These are some names) in a group so numerous 
that to mention them would make the book unduly long. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qitib, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Ibrahim b. Hashim, on the authority of his 
father and of ‘Alt b. Muhammad al-Qasant, on the authority of Zakariyya b. 
Yahya b. al-Nu‘man al-Basri, who said: I heard ‘Ali b. Ja‘far b. Muhammad 
telling al-Hasan b. al-Husayn b. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn: In his account he (i.e. ‘AIT b. 
Ja‘far) said:]! 

Allah gave Abii al-Hasan al-Rida, peace be on him, victory when his brothers 
and uncles treated him unjustly. [Then he gave a long account until he came to:] 
I (ie. ‘AlT b. Ja‘far) arose and seized the hand of Abt Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘Ali 


1 Al-Kafi, 1, 322-3, tradition no. 14, gives the full tradition. 


450 


al-Rida and I said to him: “I testify that before Allah, the Mighty and High, you 
are my Imam.” 


Al-Rida, peace be on him, wept and said: “Uncle, did you not hear my father 
saying: The Apostle, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said to my father (i.e. 
‘Alt b. Abi Talib): The son of the best of the beautiful Nubian maid-servants will 
be among his descendants. (He will be) pursued, exiled, deprived of his father. 
His grandson will be the Imam who goes into occultation. It will be said that he 
has died or had been killed or any such excuse.” 

“True, may I be your ransom,” I said. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya on the authority of Ahmad b. 
Muhammad, on the authority of Safwan b. Yahya, who said:]? 

I (i.e. Safwan b. Yahya) said to al-Rida, peace be on him: “We used to ask you 
before Allah gave you Abt Ja‘far (about your son) and you would say: ‘Allah 
will give me a son.” Now Allah has given him to you and we are delighted with 
him. We ask Allah never to show us the day (of your death) but if something 
happened, to whom (will the Imamate belong)?” 


He pointed to Abt Ja‘far with his hand while he was standing in front of him. I 
said: “May I be your ransom, this is a child of three years old.” 


“That does not harm him,” he replied. “Jesus gave evidence (of his mission) 
when he was less than three years old.” 


[Abd al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya on the authority of Ahmad b. 
Muhammad b. ‘Isa, on the authority of Mu‘ammar b. Khallad, who said:]° 

I Ge. Mu‘ammar b. Khallad) heard al-Rida, peace be on him, say when I 
mentioned something: “What need have you for that? Here is Abt Ja‘far, whom 
I have brought into my meetings and whom IJ have made to be my successor.” 
Then he added: “We are the family of the House. Our young inherit from our old, 
like one feather (on a wing) followed by the next.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of a number of his colleagues, on the authority of 
Ahmad b. Muhammad on the authority of Ja‘far b. Yahya on the authority of 
Malik b. Ashyam. on the authority of al-Husayn b. Bashshar. who said:]* 

2 Al-Kafi, 1, 321, tradition no. 10. 


3 Al-KGfi, I, 320, tradition no. 2. 
4 Al-Kafi, 1, 320, tradition no. 4. 


451 


Ibn Qayama al-WaAsitt wrote a letter to Abu al-Hasan al-Rida, peace be on him, 
in which he asked: “How will you provide an Imam when you have no son?” 


Abd al-Hasan al-Rida, peace be on him, replied to him: “What tells you that I 
will have no son? By Allah, few days and nights will pass before Allah provides 
me with a male child who will distinguish the truth from the false.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad told me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of some of his colleagues, on the authority of 
Muhammad b. ‘Alt, on the authority of Mu‘awiya b. Hukaym, on the authority 
of Ibn Abi Nasr al-Bizanti, who said:]° 

Ibn al-Najasht asked me (i.e. Ibn Abi Nasr): “Who is the Imam after your 
(present) leader?” 


I wanted to ask him (i.e . the present Imam) so that I might know. Therefore I 
went to visit al- Rida, peace be on him. And I mentioned it to him. He said to me: 
“The Imam will be my son. Does a man seem bold who says, ‘My son’, when he 
does not have a son?” 


At that time Abt Ja‘far, peace be on him, had not been born but not many days 
passed before he was born. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad told me on the authority of Muhammad b. 
Ya‘qib, on the authority of Ahmad b. Mihran. on the authority of Muhammad b. 
‘All, on the authority of Ibn Qayama al-Wasiti, - he was a Waqifite - who said]° 
I (.e. Ibn Qayama) visited ‘Alt b. Musa (al-Rida) peace be on them, and asked 
him: “Can there be two Imam?” 

“No” he replied, “unless one is silent (samit).” 


“How is it then that you do not have a silent (Imam)?” I asked. 
“Indeed,” he said, “Allah will bring one who will confirm the truth and those 
who hold it and deny the false and those who hold it. “ 


At that time he did not have a child but a year later Abu Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace 
be on him, was born to him. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad told me on the authority of Muhammad b. 
Ya‘qub, on the authority of Ahmad b. Mihran, on the authority of al-Hasan b. 
al-Jahm, who said:]’ 

5 Al-KGfi, I, 320, tradition no. 5. 


6 AL-K@fi, I, 321, tradition no. 7. 
7 Al-KGfi, I, 321, tradition no. 8. 


452 


I (i.e. al-Hasan b. al-Jahm) was sitting with Abu al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be 
on him. He called for his son who was small and put him to sit on my lap. He 
told me to strip him and take off his shirt. I took it off. Then he told me to look 
between the shoulders. I looked and there on one of his shoulders was something 
like a seal within the flesh. Then he said to me: “ Do you see this? A similar mark 
was in this place on my father, peace be on him.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad, peace be on him, informed me on the 
authority of Muhammad b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of Ahmad b. Mihran, on the 
authority of Muhammad b. ‘Alt, on the authority of Abt Yahya al-San‘ani, who 
said: ]® 

I (i.e. Aba Yahya al-San‘ani) was with Abi al-Hasan (al- Rida), peace be on him. 
His son Abi Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, was brought and he was still a 
child. (Al-Rida) said: “This child, who has been born, is greater than any child 
born to our Shi‘a.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub on the authority of al-Hasan b. Muhammad, on the authority of al- 
Khayrani, on the authority of his father, who said:]? 

I (i.e al-Khayrant’s father) was standing in front of Abt al-Hasan al-Rida, peace 
be on him, in Khurasan. Someone asked him: “My lord, if something happens, 
to whom (will authority belong)?” 

“To Abt Ja‘far (al-Jawad), my son,” he replied. 


The speaker indicated that the age of Abi Ja‘far was too young. So Abi al-Hasan 
(al-Rida), peace be on him, replied: “Allah, may He be praised, sent Jesus, son 
of Mary, to be an apostle, a prophet, the bringer of a revealed law (shari‘a), to 
begin (his mission) when his age was younger than that of Abt Ja‘far (aJ-Jawad), 
peace be on him.” 


[Abd al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority of Sahl b. 
Ziyad, on the authority of Muhammad b. al-Walid, on the authority of Yahya b. 
Habib al-Zayyat, who said: Someone who was sitting with Abt al-Hasan (al- 
Rida), peace be on him, told me:]!° 

When the people got up, Abt al-Hasan (al- Rida), pcace be on him, said to them: 
“Meet Abu Ja‘far (al-Jawad) and greet him.” 


8 Al-KGfi, I, 321. tradition no. 9. 
9 Al-Kafi, 1, 322, tradition no. 13. 
10 Al-KGfi, 1, 320, tradition no. 1. 


453 


When the people got up, he turned to me and said: “May Allah have mercy 
on Mufaddal (b, ‘Umar), since he would have been satisfied without this 
(explanation).” 


AN EXTRACT FROM THE REPORTS, PROOFS AND MIRACLES OF ABU JA‘FAR 
(AL-J AWAD), PEACE BE ON HIM. 


Al-Ma’min had a great affection for Abu Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on 
him, because of the great merit he saw in him despite his age, because of his 
attainment in philosophy and literature and because of his intellectual maturity 
which none of the scholars of the time equalled. Therefore (al-Ma’mitin) married 
him to his daughter Umm al-Fad1. (Abi Ja‘far al-Jawad) took her to Medina with 
him. Al-Ma’min was generous in his honouring and extolling of him and giving 
him rank and position. 


[Al-Hasan b. Muhammad b. Sulayman reported on the authority of ‘Alt b. 
Ibrahim b. Hashim, on the authority of his father, on the authority of al-Rayyan 
b. Shabib, who said:] 

When al-Ma’mitin wanted to marry his daughter Umm al-Fadl to Abt Ja‘far 
Muhammad b. ‘Alt (al-Jawad), peace be on them, this news reached the ‘Abbasid 
(family), and shocked them and they were greatly concerned at this. They were 
afraid that the affair (of the caliphate) would finish up with him as it had done 
with al-Rida, peace be on him. They were very concerned about that. He met the 
close members of his family and they said to him: “Commander of the faithful, 
we adjure you before Allah against persevering in this plan you have decided 
upon, of marrying the son of al-Rida (to your daughter). For we are afraid that 
you will take away from us power which Allah has made our possession, and 
strip away what He has clothed us in. You know what is between us and these 
people, both of old and recently, and the policy of the rightly-guided caliphs 
before you to isolate them and belittle them. We were (greatly) afraid of your 
action with al-Rida until Allah was sufficient for us in that task. O Allah, do not 
bring back to us that pain from which we had escaped. Turn aside from your 
opinion about the son of al-Rida and turn towards someone you think appropriate 
from your own family to the exclusion of anyone else.” 


Al-Ma’min replied: “You are the cause of (any friction) there is between 
yourselves and the family of Abi Talib. If you treated these people justly, they 
would be much closer to you. As for what those who were before me have done 
to them, it was an act against kinship and I seek Allah’s protection from it. By 
Allah, I do not regret the arrangement of succession which I made with al-Rida. 
I had asked him to undertake the affair and I was (ready to) give it up but he 


454 


refused. The decision of Allah was a decree which had been decreed. As for Abii 
Ja‘far (al-Jawad), I have chosen him because of his superiority to all men of 
merit in knowledge and merit despite his youth, and as a result of his miraculous 
nature in that. I hope that he shows the people what I know to be in him, and then 
they will understand why I hold this view with regard to him.” 


“This young man, even though he has amazed you, needs direction,” they told 
him. “He is still a boy without knowledge and understanding. Therefore act with 
circumspection towards him so that he may become educated and may gain 
understanding in religion. Then, after that do what you think appropriate.” 


“Shame on you!” he retorted. “I know this young man in (comparison with) you. 
He is from the family of the House whose knowledge is from Allah, of those 
who love Him and are inspired by Him. His ancestors were always rich in the 
knowledge of religion and literature far (beyond) the populace which lacked the 
range of (their) perfection. If you wish, examine Abi Ja‘far (al-Jawad) so that he 
may make clear to you his condition as I have described” 


“We consent to examine him, Commander of the faithful, both for you and for 
ourselves,” they answered. “So let us assign someone to question him, in your 
presence, about some matter of jurisprudence. If he gets the answer to it correct, 
there will be no opposition from us to his affair and it will demonstrate, both 
to the elite and to the public, the sound view of the Commander of the faithful. 
However, if he fails in that, we will have been able to give protection in a serious 
matter with regard to this idea.” 


“Tt is your affair and it (will take place) whenever you want to do it,” al-Ma‘mitn 
told them. 


They left him and agreed to ask Yahya b. Aktham. He was, then, the 
(outstanding) gadi of the time and he would be able to ask a question which 
(Abu Ja‘ far al-Jawad) would not be able to answer. They promised him precious 
valuables to do that. They returned to al-Ma’min and asked him to choose a day 
for their meeting. He complied with their request. They gathered on the agreed 
day and with them came Yahya b. Aktham. Al-Ma’miin ordered a seat of honour 
to be put for Abi Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, and leather pillows to be put 
on it for him. That was done. Abt Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, came out. 
At that time he was a boy of nine years and a few months. He sat down amid the 
leather pillows and Yahya. b. Aktham sat opposite him. The people stood in their 
rank while al-Ma’mitn was sitting in a seat of honour attached to Abii Ja‘far’s, 
peace be on him. 


455 


“Commander of the faithful, do you permit me to question Abu Ja‘far?” Yahya 
b. Aktham asked al- Ma’min. 
“Seek permission from him for that,” al-Ma’min replied to him. 


Then Yahya b. Aktham went forward to him and said: “May I be your ransom, do 
you permit me to question (you)?” 
“Ask if you want to,” Abu Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, told him. 


“May Allah make me your ransom,” said Yahya. “what would you say about a 
muhrim (a person in a state of ritual purification for pilgrimage) who killed an 
animal while hunting?” 


“Did he kill it in the area not sanctified or in the sanctuary?” asked Abi Ja‘ far 
(al-Jawad), peace be on him. “Did the muhrim do the killing knowingly or in 
ignorance, deliberately or by mistake? Was the muhrim free or a slave, young 
or old, inexperienced in killing or practised? Was the animal hunted, winged or 
otherwise, little or big? Was the man obstinate in his action or regretful? Was the 
killing of the hunted animal at night or during the day? Was he in a state of ritual 
consecration for the lesser pilgrimage (‘umra) or the greater pilgrimage (haj/) 
when he did the killing?” 


Yahya b. Aktham became bewildered. Inability and indecision were clear on his 
face. He began to stutter so that all the people at the assembly were aware of his 
predicament. 


“Praise be to Allah for this blessing and the success of my judgement,” said 
al-Ma‘mtn. Then he looked at the members of his family and said: “Do you 
recognise now what you used to deny?” 


He went up to Abii Ja‘far, peace be on him, and asked him: “Will you address 
us, Abii Ja‘far?” 

“Yes, Commander of the faithful,” he repiled. 

“May I be your ransom,” al-Ma’min said, “address us on your own account and 
I am pleased with you on my account. I will marry you to Umm al-Fadl, my 
daughter, even though these people object.” 


Abu Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, said: “Praise be to Allah in 
confessing His blessing. There is no god except Allah, unique in His unity. 
Blessings be upon Muhammad the lord of His creatures and upon the pure ones 
from his family. It is the favour of Allah to His creatures that He has enriched 
them with the permitted apart from the forbidden.” Then he quoted: “Marry 


456 


the unmarried among you. And the righteous of your slaves and handmaidens. 
If they are poor, Allah will enrich them out of His bounty. Allah is (all) 
encompassing, Knowing (XXIV 32). Thus it is that Muhammad b. ‘Alt b. Musa 
will become betrothed to Umm al-Fadl, the daughter of the servant of Allah, 
al-Ma‘mtin. He has bestowed as a dowry for her the dowry of his (distant) 
grandmother, Fatima, daughter of Muhammad, which is five hundred good 
dirhams. Will you marry him to her for that dowry which has been mentioned, 
Commander of the faithful?” 

“Yes,” replied al-Ma‘min, “I will marry you, Abt Ja‘far (al-Jawad), to Umm 
al-Fadl, my daughter, for the dowry which has been mentioned. Do you accept 
the marriage?” 

“T accept it and I consent to it,” replied Abii Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him. 


Al-Ma’min ordered the people to sit in the ranks of courtiers and public. 


[AI-Rayyan reported: ] 

It was not long before we heard voices, like the sounds of sailors in their songs. 
Suddenly (there appeared) slaves pulling a boat made of silver, tied to ropes of 
silk on carts filled with perfume. Al-Ma’mitn ordered the beards of the courtiers 
to be daubed with the perfume. Then it passed on to the general populace and 
they perfumed themselves with it. Tables were set up and the people ate. Gifts 
were brought out for all the people in accordance with their position. When the 
people departed and only some of the courtiers remained, al-Ma’min said to Abi 
Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him: “May I be your ransom, would you consider 
telling us the law (figh) concerning the aspects into which you divided the killing 
of an animal by a muhrim so that we may learn and benefit by it?’ 


“Yes,” replied Abt Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him. “If he had killed the 
animal outside sacred ground and it was winged and large, (an atonement of) 
a sheep would have been necessary for him. If he had struck it down in the 
sanctuary, the penalty required of him would be doubled. Ifhe killed a young bird 
outside sacred ground, then (an atonement of) a lamb which had been weaned off 
milk would have been required of him. If he had killed it in the sanctuary, then 
he would have been required (to sacrifice) a lamb and the value of the young 
bird. As for wild animals, if it was the wild ass, he would have been required (to 
sacrifice) a cow. If it was an ostrich, the sacrifice of a camel would have been 
necessary for him. If it had been a deer, then a sheep would have been necessary. 
If he had killed any of those in the sanctuary, the penalty would have been a 
doubled sacrifice offered in the Ka‘ba. If the muhrim had struck down anything 
which required a sacrifice to be made for it and his state of ritual consecration 
was for the greater pilgrimage (hajj), he would sacrifice it at Mina. If his state of 


457 


ritual consecration was for the lesser pilgrimage (‘umra), he would sacrifice it 
in Mecca. The penalties for hunting by one who knows (it to be forbidden) and 
by one who is ignorant (of that) are the same. If he did it deliberately, it is a sin. 
He is absolved of its (sinfulness), if itis by mistake. The free man is responsible 
for the payment of his own atonement while the master is responsible for the 
payment of his slave’s. There is no atonement necessary for a child while it is 
necessary for an adult. Anyone who regrets his action will escape the punishment 
of the Hereafter through his regret and anyone who is obstinate will be required 
to receive punishment in the Hereafter.” 


“You have done well, Abu Ja‘far (al-Jawad), and Allah has adorned you,” al- 
Ma’min said to him. “Now would you see fit to question Yahya as he questioned 
you?” 


“May I question you?” Abt Ja‘ far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, asked Yahya. 
“May I be your ransom,” he answered, “that is up to you but if you know the 
answer of what you ask me, then I will gain the benefit of it from you.” 


Abi Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, said: “Tell me about a man who looked 
at a woman at the beginning of the day, and his looking at her was forbidden to 
him. Yet as the morning continued, she was allowed to him. At noon she became 
forbidden to him yet in the afternoon she was permitted to him. At sunset she 
was forbidden to him but when the night came she was allowed to him. In the 
middle of the night she was forbidden to him but at dawn she was permitted to 
him. What was the state of this woman and why was she permitted and forbidden 
to him at different times?” 


“Allah has not guided me to the answer of this question and I do not know the 
approach to it,” Yahya b. Aktbam told him. “Would you think it appropriate to 
benefit us with it?” 


“This woman is a slave-girl of a man among the people.” said Abt Ja‘far (al- 
Jawad), peace be on him. “A foreigner looked at her at the beginning of the day 
and then his looking at her was forbidden to him. As the morning continued he 
bought her from her owner and she became permitted to him. At noon, he gave 
her her freedom and then she was forbidden to him. In the afternoon he married 
her and then she was permitted to him. At sunset he parted from her according 
to the disapproved formula (zihdr) - You are to me like my mother’s flesh (zihr) 
- and then she was forbidden to him. At night he made atonement for the (zihar) 
and she was permitted to him. Halfway through the night, he divorced her with 
the first declaration of the three-fold divorce and she was forbidden to him. At 


458 


dawn he renounced it and she was permitted to him.” 


Then al-Ma’mitn went forward towards those of his family who were present 
and said to them: “Is there anyone among you who could answer questions in 
the way this answer (has been given) or expatiate on the answer which has just 
been given?” 

“No, by Allah,” they replied. “Indeed the Commander of the faithful knows 
better about the decisions he makes.” 


“Shame on you,” he said to them. “This House has been singled out among 
creatures for the outstanding merit which you have seen. Even youthfulness in 
years does not prevent them from attaining perfection (of intellect). Don’t you 
realise that the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, began his 
mission by calling on the Commander of the Faithful, ‘Alt b. Abi Talib, to follow 
him when he was only a boy of ten years? And the latter accepted Islam from 
him and judged his (actions) by it? He did not call on anyone else of his age (to 
accept Islam) (Again) al-Hasan and al-Husayn, peace be on them, gave the 
pledge of allegiance when they were only boys of less than six. He did not 
require the pledge of allegiance from any boy except those two. Do you not 
realise now the special way Allah has singled out these people? They are 
offspring who follow one another so that the last of them carries out what the 
first of them did.” 

“True, Commander of the faithful,” they replied and then the people rose. 


On the next day, the people came and Abit Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, 
came. The military leaders, the chamberlains, the Courtiers and the general 
public came to greet al-Ma’miin and Abu Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him. 
Three trays of silver were brought out. On them were nuggets of musk and 
kneaded saffron. In the middle of the nuggets were pieces of parchment on which 
was written considerable wealth, annual income and estates. Al-Ma’miin ordered 
them to be scattered among the Courtiers. Everyone into Whose hand fell a 
nugget would take out the piece of parchment in it. He would seek (fulfilment) 
from him and he would grant it. Bags containing ten thousand dirhams were put 
down and their contents scattered among the military leaders and others. The 
people departed and they were rich as a result of the gifts and the salaries. Al- 
Ma’min gave alms to all the poor and he continued to be generous to Abt Ja‘ far 
(al-Jawad), peace be on him. and to magnify his position throughout his life, and 


he recommended him to his children and all his family. 
28 2K OK 


[The people reported: ] 


459 


Umm al-Fadl wrote to her father from Medina, complaining about Abt Ja‘far 
(al-Jawad), peace be on him saying: “He has slave-girls in his possession and he 
makes me jealous.” 


Al-Ma’min wrote to her: “My little daughter, we did not marry you to Abt Ja‘ far 
(al-Jawad), peace be on him, so that we should forbid him what is permitted. Do 
not mention what you have mentioned again after this.” 


When Abi Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, set out from Baghdad. after 
leaving al-Ma’mtn, and (taking) Umm al-Fadl with him and heading for 
Medina, he came to the street where the Kiifan Gate was, and with him were 
the people who had come to say farewell to him. He went to the house of al- 
Musayyib and stayed there. He went into the mosque. In its courtyard, there 
was a lote-tree which had not bore any fruit. He called for a jug of water and 
performed the ritual ablution at the roots of the lote-tree. He, peace be on him. 
stood up and performed the sunset prayer with the people. In the first (rak ‘a of 
the prayer) he recited the stra “The Opening” (I) and the siira “The Victory” 
(CX). In the second (rak ‘a) he recited: “Sincerity” (CXII). During it he made the 
personal prayer (ganut) before his bowing. Then he prayed the third (rak ‘a) and 
made the declaration of faith (shahdda) and the final salutation. He sat for a short 
time remembering Allah, may His name be exalted. He stood up without sitting 
on his heels to make any superogatory prayer. Then he prayed the customary 
additional prayer of four rak‘as, and sat back on his heels to make superogatory 
prayers. He made two prostrations of thanks and then he departed. When the 
people went to the lote-tree, they saw that it was bearing good fruit. They were 
amazed at that. They ate from it and found sweet lotes without stones. They said 
farewell to him and he departed at that time for Medina. 


He remained there until al-Mu‘tasim made him travel to Baghdad at the 
beginning of the year 220 A.H./835. He resided there until he died at the end of 
the month Dhii al-Qa‘da in the same year. He was buried behind his grandfather 
Abi al-Hasan Misa, peace be on him. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad told me on the authority of Muhammad b. 
Ya‘qiib on the authority of Ahmad b. Idris, on the authority of Muhammad b. 
Hassan, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Khalid, who said:]"! 

I (i.e. ‘Alt b. Khalid) was at al-‘ Askar (Samarra’) and I was told that there was a 
man in prison who had been brought in chains from the direction of Syria. They 
said that he had pretended to be a prophet. I went and persuaded the gate-man 
until I was able to go to him. There (I found him) a man of understanding and 
intellect. I asked: “Fellow, what is your story?” 

11 Al-Kafi, I, 492-3, tradition no 1. 


460 


“T was (just) a man in Syria,” he said, “who used to worship Allah, the Exalted. 
in the place in which it was said that the head of al-Hsayn, peace be on him, 
was placed. One night I was in my place facing the mihrab, mentioning Allah, 
the Mighty and the High when I saw a person standing in front of me. I looked 
towards him and he told me to get up. I got up with him and he walked with me 
a little way. Suddenly we were in the mosque of Kiifa. He asked me: ‘Do you 
know this mosque?’ I answered: ‘Yes, this is the mosque of Kufa.’ He said: ‘Let 
us pray.’ I prayed with him. Then he left and I left with him. He walked with mea 
little way. Suddenly we were in the mosque of the Apostle, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family. He greeted the Apostle and prayed and I prayed with him. Then 
he went out and I went out with him. He walked a little way. Suddenly we were 
in Mecca. He made the circumambulation of the (Sacred) House and I made it 
with him. Then he went out and walked a little way. Suddenly we were (back) in 
the place in which I used to worship Allah in Syria. The person disappeared from 
my sight and I was left amazed and dazed at what I had seen. 


“The next year I saw that person again. I rejoiced (to see) him. He called me and 
I answered him. He did as he had done in the previous year. When he was about 
to leave me in Syria, I said to him: ‘I ask you by the truth which I estimate you to 
have through what I have seen from you, will you tell me who you are?’ He said: 
‘Tam Muhammad b. ‘Ali b. Musa b. Ja‘far, peace be on them.’ 


“T told one of those who came to me, this report of him (about this) and he 
brought a charge against me of that to Muhammad b. ‘Abd al-Malik al-Zayyat. 
He sent for me, arrested me and put me in chains. He took me to Iraq and I was 
imprisoned as you see now. I was charged with being a cheat.” 


I said to him: “I will raise your story with Muhammad b. ‘Abd al-Malik al- 
Zayyat.” 
“Do so,” he told me. 


I wrote his story and I explained his part in it and I sent it to Muhammad b. ‘Abd 
al-Malik al-Zayyat. (It was sent back with) an answer written on it: “Tell the 
one who in one night took you from Syria to Kifa, from Kufa to Medina, from 
Medina to Mecca and then took you back from Mecca to Syria to take you from 
your prison.” 


[‘Alt b. Khalid reported: ] 

That troubled me for his affair. I felt ashamed and went away saddened for 
him. On the next day I went early to the prison to tell him the situation and to 
encourage him to be steadfast and patient. I found soldiers, guards, warders 


461 


and a great crowd of people hurrying to and fro. I asked about the situation 
and was told: “The man brought from Syria who had pretended to be a prophet 
disappeared yesterday from the prison. We do not know whether the earth has 
swallowed him or the birds have snatched him away.” 


This man - meaning ‘Alt b. Khalid - was a Zaydi and then maintained the 
Imamate when he saw that and his faith became sound. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad told me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub on the authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad. on the authority of 
Mu‘alla b. Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Alt, on the authority 
of Muhammad b. Hamza, on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Ali al-Hashimz1, 
who said:]? 

I Ge. Muhammad b. ‘Ali al-Hashimi ) visited Abt Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘AIt, 
peace be on him, early on the morning of his wedding with the daughter of al- 
Ma’min. During the night I had taken medicine. I was the first person to visit 
him on that morning. I was seized by a thirst but did not like to ask for water. 
Abt Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, looked at my face and said: “I see that 
you are thirsty.” 

“Yes,” I replied. 

“Servant, bring us water,” he said. 


I said to myself at that time that they would bring him poisoned water and I was 
grieved at that. The servant approached and with him was the water. (Al-Jawad) 
smiled into my face and said: “Servant, give me water.” 


He gave him the water and he drank it. Then he gave me the water and I drank 
it. | was with him a long lime and I became thirsty again. He called for water. 
He did the same as he had done on the first occasion and drank and then gave it 
to me, smiling. 


[Muhammad b. Hamza added: Muhammad b. ‘Ali al-Hashimi said to me:] By 
Allah, I think that Aba Ja‘far (al-Jawad) knew what was in men’s souls just as 
the Rafidites claim. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad told me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub on the authority of a number of his companions, on the authority of 
Ahmad b. Muhammad, on the authority of al-Hajjal and ‘Amr b ‘Uthman, on 
the authority of a man from Medina, on the authority of al-Mitrafi, who said:]'* 

Abt al-Hasan al-Rida, peace be on him, died while owing me (i.e. al-Mitrafi) 
12 Al-KGfi, 1, 495-6, tradition no. 6. 

13 Al-KGfi, 1, 497, tradition no. 11. 


462 


four thousand dirhams. No one knew about it except myself and him. Abi Ja‘ far 
(al-Jawad), peace be on him, sent for me on the next day to come to him. On the 
next day, I went to him. He said to me: “ Abt al-Hasan al-Rida, peace be on him, 
died while owing you four thousand dirhams.” 

“Yes,” I answered. 


He lifted up the prayer-mat which was under him. Behold under it were (a 
number of) dmars. He gave them to me and their amount was at that time 
equivalent to four thousand dirhams. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad told me on the authority of Muhammad b. 
Ya‘qub, on the authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad, on the authority of Mu‘alla 
b. Muhammad, who said:]* 

The death of his father occurred while Abi Ja‘far (al-Jawad) was still a young 
man. I (i.e. Mu‘alla b. Muhammad) examined his size in order to describe his 
stature to our companions. He sat still and then said: “ Mu‘alla, Allah has given 
proof for the Imamate in the same way as He gave proof for prophethood. For He 
said: We gave him the law while still a boy (XIX 12)”. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad told me on the authority of Muhammad b. 
Ya‘qiib on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority of Sahl b. Ziyad, 
on the authority of Dawud b. al-Qasim al- Ja‘fari, who said:]'° 

I G.e. Dawud b. al-Qasim al-Ja‘fari) visited Abi Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on 
him. I had with me three pieces of parchment without names on them and I was 
doubtful about (whose they were) and as a result I was grieved. He took one of 
them and said: “This is the parchment of Rayyan b. Shabib.” Then he took the 
second of them and said: “This is the parchment of so-and-so.” 

“Yes,” I replied. 


I looked at him in surprise. He smiled and took the third. He said: “This is the 
parchment of so-and-so.” 
“Yes, may I be your ransom,” IJ replied. 


He gave me three hundred dinars and told me to take them to one of his uncles. 
He said: “He will say to you: Show me an artisan who will sell me furniture. 
Show him one.” 


I took the dinars to him and he said to me: “Abt Hashim, show me an artisan 
who will sell me furniture.” 


14 Al-Ka@fi, 1, 494. tradition no. 4. Al-Kulaynt’s version is slightly longer and the eye-witness ‘AIT 
b. Asbat is missing from al-Mufid’s version. 
15 Al-KGfi, 1, 495, tradition no. 5. 


463 


“Yes,” I said. 


[Aba Hashim reported: ] 

A camel-driver spoke to me on the road and asked me to discuss with (al-Jawad) 
the introduction of one of his companions into his affairs. I visited (al-Jawad) to 
speak with him and I found him eating. With him was a group of people so that 
I could not speak with him. 


He said to me: “Eat, Abii Hashim.” 

He put in front of me the food from which he had eaten and then said to me: 
“Begin without questioning. Servant, see to the camel-driver whom Abt Hashim 
has brought to us and join him to your group.” 


[Aba Hashim reported: ] 

One day I went into an orchard with (al-Jawad). I said to him: “May I be your 
ransom, I have a desire to eat clay. Pray to Allah for me.” 

He was silent. Some days later he said to me: “As from now, Abu Hashim, Allah 
has taken away (your desire) to eat clay from you.” 


[Aba Hashim reported: ] 


Today nothing is more hateful to me than it. 
ok 2 2k 2K 


Reports conveying these ideas are numerous. What we have given is sufficient 
for our purpose, if Allah wills. 


THE DEATH OF ABU JA‘FAR (AL-J AWAD), PEACE BE ON HIM, ITS CAUSE, THE 
PLACE OF HIS GRAVE AND THE ACCOUNT OF HIS CHILDREN 


He died in Baghdad. The reason for that was that al-Mu‘tasim made him leave 
Medina. So he came to Baghdad, two days before the end of the month of al- 
Muharram in the year 220 A.H. (835). He died there in the month of Dhi al- 
Qa‘da in the same year. It was said that he died as a result of poisoning but in my 
view no report has established that, and I bear witness to that. He was buried in 
the cemetery of Quraysh behind his grandfather, Abt al-Hasan Misa b. Ja‘ far, 
peace be on them. He died at the age of twenty-five and some months. He was 
described as “the chosen one” and “the one who has given pleasure (to Allah)” 


He left among his children ‘AIj, his son, the Imam after him, and Misa, and his 


two daughters Fatima and Imama. There were no other male children except 
those we have mentioned. 


464

[[p 35]]
CHAPTER IX 


IMAM ‘ALI B. MUHAMMAD AL-HADI 


(This is) an account of the Imam after Abt Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘AIj, peace 
be on him, (describing) the date of his birth, the evidence of his Imamate, and 
(giving) a survey of the reports about him, the period of his Imamate and the age 
he reached. (It also) records his death, the reason for it, the place of his grave, the 
number of his children and a selection of reports about him. 


The Imam after Abt Ja‘far, peace be on him, was his son, Abi al- Hasan ‘Ali b. 
Muhammad, peace be on them, by virtue of the qualities of the Imamate, which 
were united in him, and the complete nature of his outstanding merit (fad/). 
The fact is that no one could succeed to the position of his father except him 
because of the corroboration of his father’s nomination of him to the Imamate 
and the (clear) indication of his father of his succession. He was born at Surya 
in Medina, the city of the Apostle, in the middle of the month of Dhi al-Hijja 
in the year 212 A.H. (828). He died at Samarra’ in the month of Rajab in the 
year 254 A.H. (868). At that time he was forty-one years and some months. 
Al-Mutawakkil had made him come from Medina to Samarra’ with Yahya b. 
Harthama b. A‘yan, where he resided until he died. The period of his Imamate 
was thirty-three years. His mother was a slave-wife called Sumana. 


AN EXTRACT FROM THE REPORTS OF HIS NOMINATION FOR THE IMAMATE 
AND OF HIS BEING INDICATED FOR SUCCESSION 


[Abd al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Ibrahim, on the authority of his father, on 
the authority of Isma‘tl b. Mihran, who said:]' 

When Abi Ja‘far (al-Jawad) left Medina for Baghdad on the first of the two 
occasions in which he did so, I (i.e. Isma‘tl b. Mihran) said to him at his 
departure: “May I be your ransom, I am afraid for you with regard to this 
situation. To whom does the affair (of the Imamate) belong after you?” 

He turned his face towards me, laughing, and said to me: “It is not as you think 
this year.” 


When he was summoned to al-Mu‘tasim, I went to him and said: “May I be your 
ransom, you are outside (our normal reach). To whom does this affair belong 
after you?” 


1 Al-Kafi, 1, 232, tradition no. 1. 


465 


He wept until his beard became damp. Then he turned to me and said: “On this 
occasion when there is fear for me, (it should be known that) the affair (of the 
Imamate) after me belongs to my son, ‘AI1.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad, on the authority of al- 
Khayrani, on the authority of his father:]* 

I (i.e. al- Khayrant’s father) was close to the door of Abii Ja‘far, peace be on him, 
to be of service in whatever I was entrusted. Ahmad b. Muhammad b. ‘Isa al- 
Ash‘ari used to come at daybreak at the end of each night to learn about the news 
of the illness of Abii Ja‘far, peace be on him. There was a messenger who used to 
go between Abii Ja‘far and (me) al-Khayrani (that is, the reporter of the tradition 
at the door). When he came Ahmad would rise and the messenger would speak 
privately with (me). 


[Al- Khayrani reported:] 

One night, (the messenger) came out. Ahmad b. Muhammad b. ‘Isa rose from 
his seat. The messenger spoke privately to me and Ahmad wandered around. He 
stopped when he could hear the conversation. The messenger said: “Your master 
(mawla) sends you his greetings and tells you: ‘I am dying and the affair (of the 
Imamate) will go to my son, ‘Alt. You should treat him after me in the same way 
as you treated me after my father.’” 


Then the messenger departed and Ahmad returned to his place. 

“What did he say to you?” he asked. 

“Tt’s all night,” I answered. 

“T heard what he said”, he asserted and repeated what he had heard. 

“Allah has forbidden what you have done,” I told him, “because Allah says: Do 
not spy (XLIX 12). Since you have heard, remember the testimony. Perhaps we 
will need it one day but beware of revealing it until the (appropriate) time for it.” 


When morning came, I wrote the text of the message in ten letters. I sealed them 
and gave them to ten of our leading colleagues. I said: “If death comes upon me 
before I ask you for them, open them and acquaint yourselves with what is in 
them.” 


When Abt Ja‘far (al-Jawad), peace be on him, died, I did not leave my house 
until I knew that the leaders of the group had gathered at Muhammad b. al- 
Faraj’s (house) to discuss the affair (of the Imamate). Muhammad b. al-Faraj had 
written to me to inform me of their meeting with him, saying: “If it was not for 


2 Al-Kafi, 1, 324, tradition no. 2. 


466 


the fear of publicity, I would come to you with them. It would be better for you 
to ride out (to us).” 


I rode out and went to him. I found the people gathered with him. We went 
through the door. I found that most of them were in a state of perplexity. 

“Who of you have the letters?” I asked. “Those who are present, take out those 
letters.” 


They took them out. 
“This is what you have been ordered (to do).” I told them. 


Some of them said: “We would prefer that someone else had been with you in 
this matter to confirm these words.” 


“Allah will give you what you want,” I told them. “Here is Abu Ja‘far al-Ash‘ari 
(i.e. Ahmad b. Muhammad b. ‘Is@) who will testify to my hearing this message. 
Question him.” 


The people questioned him and he held back from giving his testimony. I called 
upon him to take an oath (of destruction, mubdahila). He was frightened of that 
and then admitted: “I heard that. (Such a communication) is a great honour for a 
man, which I would have preferred to have gone to an Arab. But as a result of the 
challenge to an oath (of destruction), there is no way of concealing testimony.” 


It was not long then before the people submitted to Abi al-Hasan (‘Ali al-Hadi), 


peace he on him. 
ok 2 2 2K 3 


Reports of this kind are so very numerous that our task in presenting them would 
make the book unduly long. As a result of the agreement of the group (‘isaba’) 
on the Imamate of Abi al-Hasan (‘Ali al-Hadt), and of the absence of any who 
claimed it other than him at his time so that there might have been some doubt in 
the matter, there is no need to present the reports of the nominations of his being 
preferred. 


A SURVEY OF THE EVIDENCE FOR ABU AL-HASAN ‘ALI B. MUHAMMAD 
(AL-HADI), PEACE BE ON HIM, REPORTS ABOUT HIM, HIS PROOF AND HIS 
EXPLANATIONS 


[Abd al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the, authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad, on the authority of 


467 


Mu‘alla b. Muhammad, on the authority of al-Washsha’, on the authority of 
Khayran al-Asbati, who said:]* 

I (i.e. Khayran al-Asbatt) went to Abi al-Hasan ‘Alt b. Muhammad (al-Had1), 
peace be on them, at Medina. He asked me: “What is the news of al-Wathiq?” 
“May I be your ransom,” I replied, “I left him in good health, but while I am 
one of the closest people in contact with him, my (last) contact with him was ten 
days ago.” 

“The Medinans say that he has died,” he told me. 


When he told me that “the people” were saying (that), I knew that he meant 
himself. Then he asked me: “What has Ja‘far (i .e. al-Mutawakkil) been doing?” 
“T left him in the wretchedest of predicaments in prison,” I said. 

“He is now in control of affairs,” he told me. 


“What has Ibn Zayyat been doing?” he asked me. 

“The people are with him and the authority is his authority,” I answered. 

“Now it is unlucky for him,” he said. Then he fell silent. He said to me: “There 
is no escape from the decrees and ordinances of Allah, Khayran. Al-Wathiq has 
died. Ja‘ far al-Mutawakkil sits (on the throne) and Ibn al-Zayyat has been killed.” 


“When, may I be your ransom?” I asked. 
“Six days after your departure,” he said. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qib, on the, authority of ‘AlT b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ibrahim b. 
Muhammad al-Tahiri, who said:]‘ 

Al-Mutawakkil became ill with boils which appeared on him. He was on the 
point of death. No one dared to touch him with a knife (to cut them away). His 
mother vowed that if he was preserved she would give a great deal of wealth 
from her fortune to Abi al-Hasan ‘Alt b. Muhammad (al-Hadt), peace be on 
them. Al-Fath b. Khaqan said to him: “If you sent to this man - meaning Abi al- 
Hasan (‘Alt b. Muhammad al-Hadt), peace be on him - and ask him, perhaps he 
will have the description of something by which Allah will bring ease to you.” 
“Send to him,” he ordered. 


The messenger departed. He returned and said: “Take the dregs of the fat from 
a sheep. Mix it with rose-water and put it on the boils. It will be beneficial, if 
Allah permits.” 


3 Al-KGfi, I, 497. tradition no. 1. 


4 Al-Kafi, 1, 499-500. tradition no. 4. The names in the isndd have been corrected according to al- 
Kulayni and what comes later in the account. 


468 


Those who were present with al-Mutawakkil began to scoff at his words. Al-Fath 
said to them: “There will be no harm in trying out what he said. By Allah, I hope 
there is advantage in it.” 


The fat was brought, mixed with rose-water and put on the boils. They opened 
out. Out came what had been in them. The mother of al-Mutawakkil was 
overjoyed at the news of his health. She sent ten thousand dinars under her seal 
to Abt al-Hasan (‘All b. Muhammad al-Hadi). Al-Mutawakkil was now cured 
of his illness. Some days later al-Batha’1 went to al-Mutawakkil to report lies 
about Abi al-Hasan (‘Alt b. Muhammad al-Hadi). He said. “He has money and 
weapons.” 


Al-Mutawakkil sent Sa‘td, the chamberlain, to go unexpectedly to him at night 
and seize what money and weapons he could find with him and bring (them) to 
him. 


[Ibrahim b. Muhammad reported: Sa ‘id, the chamberlain, said to me (i.e. Ibrahim 
b. Muhammad):] 

I (Sa‘id, the chamberlain) went to the house of Abi al-Hasan (al- Hadr) at night. 
I had a ladder with me. I climbed up it on to the roof. I went down some stairs 
in the darkness. I did not know where I was in the house. Then Abi al-Hasan 
(al- Had) called to me from the house: “Sa‘td, (stay) where you are until a 
candle is brought to you.” Soon a candle was brought and I went down, I found 
him wearing a woollen cloak and a hat of wool. His prayer mat was on the floor 
in front of him. He was facing the qgibla (i.e. the direction of Mecca). He said to 
me: “In front of you are the rooms.” 


I went into them and searched them but I did not find anything in them. However, 
I did find a purse of ten thousand dirhams sealed with the seal of the mother of 
al-Mutawakkil and a bag sealed with her (seal). Then Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadt) 
said: “In front of you is the prayer mat.” 


I lifted it up and found a sword in a cloth sheath. I took that and went to (al- 
Mutawakkil). When he saw the seal of his mother on the purse of ten thousand 
dinars, he sent for her. She came to him and he asked her about the purse of 
ten thousand dinars. One of the servants of the courtiers informed me that she 
said: “When you were ill, I vowed that if you recovered, I would send him ten 
thousand dinars from my wealth and I sent them to him. This is my seal on the 
bag. He has not disturbed it nor opened the other bag.” 


There were four hundred dinars in the (other) bag. (al-Mutawakkil) ordered 


469 


anotther purse of ten thousand dinars to be added to the (existing) purse and told 
me: “Carry that to Abu al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on him, and take back to 
him the sword and the bag with its contents.” 


I carried them to him. I felt ashamed in front of him and I said to him: “Master, 
it grieves me to have entered your house without your permission but I was 
ordered (to do it).” 


He said to me. “Those who do wrong will be aware of it. By what kind of change 
shall they be changed (XXVI 227).” 


[Abd al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad, on the authority of al- 
Mu‘alla b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ahmad b. Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah, 
on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad al-Nawfali, who said: Muhammad b. al- 
Faraj al-Rukhkhaji told me:]° 

Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on him, wrote to him (i.e. Muhammad b. al- 
Faraj al-Rukhkhaji): “Muhammad, get your affairs in order and take precautions 
for yourself.” 


[Muhammad b. al-Faraj reported: ] 

My affairs were in order and I did not know what he meant by what he had 
written to me until a messenger came for me and took me from Egypt chained 
in iron and seized everything I possessed. I remained in prison for eight years. 
Then (another) letter came to me from him while I was in prison: “Muhammad 
b. al-Faraj, do not go in the area of the western part of Samarra’.” 

I read the letter and said to myself: “Abt al-Hasan (al- Hadi), peace be on him, 


writes this to me while I am in prison. This is indeed strange.” 


It was only a few days later that I was set free, my bonds were undone and I was 
released. After my release, I wrote some requests to him to ask Allah to restore 
my estate to me. He wrote to me: “Your estates will be restored to you but it 
would not harm you if your estates were not restored to you .” 


[‘Alt b. Muhammad al-Nawfali reported: ] 

When Muhammad b. al-Faraj al-Rukhkhaji went to al-‘Askar (Samarra’), (al- 
Hadrt) wrote to him about the restoration of his estates to him. However, the letter 
did not arrive before he died. 


[‘Alt b. Muhammad al-Nawfali reported: ] 
5 Al-KGfi, I, 500, tradition no. 5. 


470 


Ahmad b. al-Khadib wrote to Muhammad b. al-Faraj to go al-‘Askar (Samarra’). 
He wrote to Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on him, to ask his advice. Abt 
al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on him, wrote to him: “Go there, for there you will 
find relief.” 

It was not long after that he died. 


[Ahmad b. (Muhammad) b. ‘Isa reported: Abii Ya‘qib said:] 

I G.e. Aba Ya‘qub) saw Muhammad b. al-Faraj one evening before his death 
at al-‘Askar (Samarra’). He went into the presence of Abii al-Hasan (al-Hadt), 
peace be on him. The latter looked at him with an efficacious look. On the 
following day Muhammad b. al-Faraj fell sick. I went to pay a sick visit to him 
some days after his illness. He told me that Abu al-Hasan (al-Had1), peace be on 
him, had sent him a cloak and he showed it to me wrapped under his head. 


[Abu Ya‘qutb added:] 
By Allah, he was shrouded in it. 


[Ahmad b. Muhammad b. ‘Isd mentioned: Abii Ya‘qib told me:]° 

I (i.e. Abi Ya‘qiib) saw Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on him, with Ahmad b. 
al-Khadib. They were both travelling together but Abt al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace 
be on him, was not keeping up with him. 

“May I be your ransom, hurry,” Ibn al-Khadib said to him. 

“You will be the first,” Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadz), replied to him. 


It was only four days later that the stocks were put on the legs of Ibn al-Khadib 
and he was killed. 


Ibn al-Khadib had harassed him with requests for the house in which he had 
settled. He asked him to move from it and give it to him. Abt al-Hasan (al- 
Hadrt), peace be on him, sent to him: “Let me keep a place for you with Allah, for 
you will not remain long with it.” 


Allah took him during those days. 


[Al-Husayn b. al-Hasan al-Hasani reported: Abt al-Tayyib Ya‘qib b. Yasir told 
me:]’ 

Al-Mutawakkil used to say: “Shame on you, the affair of the son of al-Rida (i.e. 
al-Hadi) baffled me. I used to try to make him drink with me and be my intimate 
friend but he refused. I tried to find an opportunity in this respect but I did not 
find one.” 


6 Al-Kafi, 500-1, tradition no. 6. Al-Kulaynt’s isndd has been shortened. 
7 Al-KGfi, I, 502, tradition no. 8. 


471 


One of those with him said to him: “If you did not find in the son of al-Rida the 
attitude you wanted, there is his brother, Musa, who is a reveller and a musician; 
he eats and drinks, he loves and divorces. Bring him and make him well-known. 
The reports will start to spread about that with regard to the son of al-Rida and 
the people will not be able to distinguish between him and his brother. Those 
who come to know (Misa) will accuse his brother of the same actions.” 

“Write to bring him in honour,” he ordered. 


He was brought in (great) honour and al-Mutawakkil sent forward all the Banu 
Hashim and the military leaders to meet him. The people travelled alongside. 
He ordered that when he arrived there an estate should be given to him and (a 
house) built for him on it. Wine-merchants and dancers should be sent to it. He 
presented (him) with gifts and gave him (great) honours. He set apart a luxurious 
house for him, which was suitable for him to visit in. 


When he had bestowed (all this generosity) on Misa, Abu al-Hasan (al-Hadt), 
peace be on him, met (Misa) at the bridge of Wasif - it is a place where people 
used to meet before. He greeted him and paid him his due. Then he said: “This 
man has brought you to disgrace you and lessen your (dignity). Do not admit to 
him that you have ever drunk wine. Fear Allah, my brother, lest you commit that 
which is forbidden.” 


“He only invited me for this and there is no trick against me,” Musa replied, 
“Do not diminish your rank and be disobedient to your Lord,” he told him. “Do 
not do what will mar you. His only purpose is to destroy you.” 


Musa refused (to listen to) him. Abu al-Hasan (al-Hadi) repeated his words and 
warning while the other persisted in his opposition. When he saw that he would 
not agree, he said: “As for the assembly which you want to meet him in, you and 
he will never meet.” 


For three years Musa continued to go early every day to the door of 
al-Mutawakkil and he would be told that he was busy that day. He would go in 
the evening and he would be told that he was drunk. He would go early in the 
morning and he would be told that he had taken medicine. This continued for 
three years until al-Mutawakkil was killed and he never met him to drink with 
him. 


[Muhammad b. ‘Alt reported: Zayd b. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn b. Zayd informed me:]® 
I (i.e. Zayd) was sick and the doctor visited me one night. He prescribed a 


8 AlL-KGfi, I, 502, tradition no. 9. 


472 


medicine for me and that I should take it before dawn at such and such a time 
each day. It was not possible for me to obtain it at night. The doctor left through 
the door and in came a follower of Abt al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on him, 
at the very same time. With him was a bag in which was that exact medicine. 
He said to me: “Abt al-Hasan sends you greetings and says to you: Take this 
medicine at such and such a time each day.” 


I took it and drank it and I recovered. 


[Muhammad b. ‘Ali added:] 
Zayd b. ‘All said to me; “Muhammad, where are the extremists (ghulat) as a 
result of this account?” 


THE ACCOUNT OF THE COMING OF ABU AL-HASAN (AL- HADI), PEACE BE ON 
HIM, FROM MEDINA TO AL-‘ASKAR, His DEATH THERE AND THE CAUSE OF IT, 
THE NUMBER OF HIS CHILDREN AND A SURVEY OF THE REPORTS ABOUT HIM. 


The reason for Abt al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be upon him, leaving Medina 
for Samarra’ was that ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad was put in charge of war and 
prayer in Medina, the city of the Apostle, may Allah bless Him and His Family. 
He told lies to Al-Mutawakkil with the intention of harming him. Abt al-Hasan 
(al- Hadi), peace be upon him, learnt of his lying and wrote to al-Mutawakkil, 
mentioning ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad’s unfair treatment of him and the lies 
with which he had slandered him. Al-Mutawakkil sent his answer to his letter, in 
which he summoned him to come to al-‘ Askar (Samarra’) as an act of courtesy 
both in word and deed. The text of the letter has been preserved;? it is: 
“In the name of Allah, the Merciful, The Compassionate. . . The 
Commander of the faithful, being aware of your rank, caring for your 
close relationship (with him), judging matters which are appropriate for 
the circumstances of you and your House, confirms your dignity and their 
dignity, gives security to you and them, requiring by that the consent of 
his Lord and the performance of what is stipulated with regard to you and 
them. The Commander of the faithful has seen it as appropriate to dismiss 
‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad from his appointment over war and prayer in 
Medina, the city of the Apostle, may Allah bless Him and His Family, 
because he was ignorant of your rights, as you have mentioned, and took 
no account of your rank when he suspected you and attributed to you a 
matter in which the Commander of the faithful knew of your innocence, 
and of the truthfulness of your intentions through your piety and your 
words. You have not rendered yourself worthy when you suspected his 
9 Al-Kafi, 1, 501, tradition no. 7. 


473 


(i.e, the Commander of the faithful’s) request (to come to Samarra’ ). The 
Commander of the faithful has appointed Muhammad b. al-Fadl over what 
(the other man) used to administer. He has ordered him to honour and 
respect you, to carry out your orders and views and by that to be close to 
Allah and to the Commander of the faithful. However the Commander of 
the faithful is anxious to be close to you and to see you. If you would come 
to visit him and reside with him as long as you want, then come, you and 
those whom you choose of your House, your retainers and your coterie, 
at your leisure and ease. You would travel when you wanted, stop when 
you wanted and go how you wanted. If you liked Yahya b. Harthama, 
the retainer of the Commander of the faithful, and the soldiers with him 
would travel with you and make the journey (with you). The decision 
about that is up to you. Ask Allah for a decision so that you may come 
to the Commander of the faithful. None of his brothers, his children, his 
family and his courtiers are as sympathetic to you as he is. No one is more 
praiseworthy in their treatment of you than him. No one among them 
is kinder to you, nor are any of them more respectful to you, nor more 
compassionate to you than he will be to you. Greetings and the mercy and 
blessings of Allah be on you.” 


Ibrahim ibn al-‘Abbas wrote (this letter) in the month of Jumada al-Akhira 
in the year 243 A.H. (857). When the letter reached Abt al-Hasan (al- 
Hadt), peace be upon him, he made preparations for the journey. Yahya ibn 
Harthama accompanied him until he reached Samarra’. When he arrived there, 
al-Mutawakkil provided him with what was necessary at that time. He stayed 
in an inn called the Inn of al-Sa‘altk. He resided there for a day. Then al- 
Mutawakkil gave him a house for himself and he moved there. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad, on the authority of 
Mu‘alla b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ahmad b. Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah 
on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya on the authority of Salih b. Sa‘td, who 
said:]'° 

“T (i.e. Salih b. Sa‘Td) visited Abt al-Hasan (al-Hadz1), peace be upon him, on the 
day of his coming to Samarra’. I said to him: “May I be your ransom, in every 
matter they are only concerned to extinguish your light and to diminish you so 
that they have put you to stay in this hideous inn - the Inn of al-Sa‘alik.” 

“Here you are Ibn Sa‘id,” he said, and indicated with his hand. Suddenly I was 
amid pleasant gardens and flowing rivers and gardens in which were perfumed 
plants and beautiful maidens like veiled pearls. My sight became confused and 


10 Al-KGfi, 1, 498, tradition no. 2 


474 


my amazement was great. He said to me: “This is where we are. This belongs to 


us, Ibn Sa‘td. We are not in the Inn of al-Sa‘alik.” 
2k ok 2 2k ok 


Abi al-Hasan (al- Hadt), peace be upon him, resided for a time at his residence 
in Samarra’ publicly honoured. Yet al-Mutawakkil endeavored to make him 
fall into a trap but he was not able to do that. The reports of him with (al- 
Mutawakkil) in which there are signs and indications of his (Imamate) are so 
numerous that it would make the book too long to mention them. If we attempted 
to present them, we would have to abandon the purpose we set for ourselves. 


Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be upon him, died in Rajab in the year 254 
A.H. (868) in his house in Samarra’. Among the children he left behind is 
Abii Muhammad al-Hassan, his son who was the Imam after him, al-Hussein, 
Muhammad, Ja‘far and his daughter, ‘A’isha. He resided in Samarra’ for ten 
years and some months until his death. He died at the age of forty-one as we have 
mentioned before. 


475

[[p 36]]
CHAPTER X 


IMAM AL-HASAN B. ‘ALI AL-‘ASKARI 


(In this chapter there will be) an account of the Imam undertaking the office (al- 
qa im) after Abt al-Hasan ‘Ali b. Muhammad (al-Hadi), peace be on them. (It 
will give) the date of his birth, the evidence for his Imamate and his nomination 
by his father, his age, and the period of his succession. (It will) mention his death, 
the place of his grave and a survey of reports about him. 


The Imam after Abt al-Hasan ‘Alt b. Muhammad (al-Hadi), peace be on them, 
was his son Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. ‘Alt (al-‘Askart) by virtue of the 
occurrence in him of the qualities of outstanding merit, and by his precedence 
over the rest of the people of his time in terms of knowledge, asceticism, 
perfection of reason, infallibility (‘isma), bravery, nobility and the great number 
of his works which brought him close to Allah, may His name be extolled, all 
of which required his Imamate and necessitated his leadership. In addition (he 
was the Imam) because of the nomination of him by his father and the latter’s 
indication of him for the succession. 


He was born in Medina in the month of Rabi‘ al-Akhir in the year 232 A.H. 
(846). He, peace be on him, died on Friday 8th of the month of Rabi‘ al-Awwal 
in the year 260 A.H. (873). At that time he was twenty-eight years of age. He was 
buried in his house at Samarra’. (It was) the house in which his father, peace be 
on him, was buried. His mother was a slave-wife called Hadith. The period of his 
succession (to the Imamate) was six years. 


A SURVEY OF THE REPORTS PUT FORWARD CONCERNING HIS NOMINATION 
BY HIS FATHER, PEACE BE ON THEM, AND THE INDICATION OF HIM FOR THE 
IMAMATE AFTER HIM 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Al b. Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ahmad al-Nahdi, on the authority of Yahya b. Yasar al-‘ Anbari, who said:]' 
Abu al-Hasan ‘Alt b. Muhammad (al-Hadi), peace be on him, made his 
testamentary bequest to his son four months before his death. He indicated that 
the affair (of the Imamate) would belong to him after himself. He made me (i.e. 
Yahya b. Yasar al-‘Anbart) and a group of servants (mawali) witness that. 


1 Al-kKafi, I, 325, tradition no. 1. 


476 


[Abd al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qutb, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ja‘far 
b. Muhammad al-Kafi, on the authority of Bashshar b. Ahmad al-Basri, on the 
authority of ‘Ali b. ‘Umar al-Nawfalt, who said: |’ 

I (ve. ‘Alt b. ‘Umar al-Nawfal1) was with Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on 
him, in the courtyard of his house. Muhammad, his son, passed us and I said to 
(al-Hadi): “May I be your ransom, is this our leader after you?” 

“No,” he replied, “your leader after me is al-Hasan.” 


[With the same chain of authorities (isndd), on the authority of Bashshar b. 
Ahmad, on the authority of ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad al-Isfahant, who said:]? 
Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadt), peace be on him, said to me (i.e. ‘Abd Allah b. 
Muhammad al-Isfahan1): “Your leader after me is the one who will say the prayer 
over me (at my funeral).” 


We did not know that it would be Abu Muhammad (al-‘ Askari) before that. But 
after his death Abt: Muhammad (al-‘Askar1) came out and said the prayer over 
him. 


[With the same chain of authorities (isnad), on the authority of Bashshar b. 
Ahmad, on the authority of Misa b. Ja‘far b. Wahb, on the authority of ‘Ali b. 
Ja‘far, who said:]* 

I used to attend Abt al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on him. When his son, 
Muhammad, died, he said to al-Hasan (al-‘Askari): “My son, give thanks to 
Allah, for Allah has made an (important) matter (rest) in you.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad, on the authority of 
Mu‘alla b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ahmad b. Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah 
b. Marwan al-Anbarti. who said:]° 

I Ge. ‘Abd Allah b. Marwan al-Anbart) was present at the death of Abt Ja‘far 
Muhammad b. ‘Alt. Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadi) came. A chair was put for him and 
he sat on it. The members of his House were around him. Abi Muhammad 
(al-‘Askart), his son, peace be on him, was standing at the side. When the 
affairs (concerned with the death) of Abu Ja‘far were finished. he turned to Abt 
Muhammad (al-‘Askari), peace be on him and said: “My son, give thanks to 
Allah, the Exalted, for He had made an (important) matter (rest) in you.” 


2 Al-Kaft, 1, 325-6, tradition no. 2 Al-Mufid’s isndad has been corrected. 
3 Al-KGfi, I, 326, tradition no. 3. 
4 Al-Kafi, 1, 326. tradition no. 4. 
5 Al-KGfi, I, 326, tradition no. 5. 


477 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ahmad al-QalanisI, on the authority of ‘Ali b. al-Husayn b. ‘Amr, on the 
authority of ‘Ali b. Mahziyar, who said:]° 

I (i.e. ‘Ali b. Mahziyar) said to Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on him: “If 
an event takes place and I seek refuge in Allah (from that), to whom (does the 
Imamate belong)?” 


“My nomination (‘ahd) is to the eldest of my (surviving) sons,” he said, meanmg 
al-Hasan, peace be on him. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qtib, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of Abi 
Muhammad al-Astarabadi, on the authority of ‘AlTb. ‘Amr al-‘ Attar, who said:]’ 
I visited Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on him, while his son Abi Ja‘far 
(Muhammad ) was still alive. I thought that he was the successor after him. I 
said to him: “May I be your ransom, who is the specified one among your sons?” 
“Do not specify anyone until my command comes to you,” he said. 


I wrote to him later about who would have the affair (of the Imamate). He wrote 
to me: “(It belongs) to the eldest of my (surviving) sons.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya and another, on the authority 
of Sa‘d b. ‘Abd Allah, on the authority of a group of the Bani Hashim, among 
whom was al-Hasan b. al-Husayn al-Aftas:]® 

They (i.e. the group of Bani Hashim) were present on the day in which 
Muhammad b. ‘Alt b. Muhammad died, in the courtyard of the house of Abu 
al-Hasan (al-Hadi), peace be on him, and the people were sitting around him. 


[They said:] 

We estimated that there were a hundred and fifty men from the family of Abi 
Talib, the Bant ‘Abbas and Quraysh, excluding his retainers and the rest of the 
people. Then al-Hasan b. ‘Alt (al-‘Askar1), peace be on them, looked at (us). He 
had come wearing a coat rent (with grief). He stood at his right and we did not 
recognise him. Abi al-Hasan (al-Had1), peace be on him, looked at him after he 
had been standing for an hour and said to him: “My son, give thanks to Allah, for 
he has made an (important) matter (rest) in you.” 


6 AL-KGfi, I, 326, tradition no. 6. 


7 Al-KGfi, I, 326, tradition no. 7. 
8 Al-KGfi, I, 326-7. tradition no. 8. 


478 


Al-Hasan (al-‘Askar1) wept and repeated the formula - We belong to Allah and 
to Him we return. Then he said: “Praise be to Allah, Lord of the worlds. To Him 
do I request the perfection of His bounty upon us. We belong to Allah and to Him 
we return.” 

We asked about him and we were told: “That is al-Hasan b. ‘AI, his son.” 


We reckoned him to be twenty years of age or the like at that time. On that 
day we knew him and we understood that (al-Had1) had indicated him for the 
Imamate and to take his place. 


[Abd al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the authority of ‘Alj b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ishaq b. 
Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya, who said:]? 

I visited Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadt), peace be on him, after the death of his son, Abt 
Ja‘far, and paid my condolences to him. Abu Muhammad (al-‘Askart), peace 
be on him, was sitting (with him). Aba Muhammad wept and Abt al-Hasan (al- 
Hadt), peace be on them, approached him and said: “Allah has made succession 
(rest) with you from Him. Therefore praise Allah.” 


[Aba al-Qasim (Ja‘far b. Muhammad) informed me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ya‘qib, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority 
of Ishaq b. Muhammad, on the authority of Abii Hashim al-Ja‘fari, who said:]!° 

I (i.e. Aba Hashim al-Ja‘farl) was with Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadt), peace be on him, 
after the death of his son, Abu Ja‘far (Muhammad). I was thinking to myself 
that I wanted to say that they were both - I mean Abi Ja‘far (Muhammad) and 
Abia Muhammad (al-‘Askar1), peace be on him - like Abt al-Hasan Misa, peace 
be on him, and Isma‘Tl, the two sons of Ja‘far b. Muhammad (al-Sadiq), peace 
be on them. Indeed the former two’s story was like the latter two’s story. Abi 
al-Hasan (al-Hadi) approached me before I could speak and said: “Yes, Abu 
Hashim, Allah has revealed (His will) concerning Abu Muhammad (al-‘Askari) 
after Abt Ja‘far (Muhammad) (has suffered) what no one could have known, just 
as He revealed (His will) concerning Misa after the death of Isma‘1l revealed his 
state. It is just like you were saying to yourself. Even though the falsifiers may 
dislike it, my son Abt Muhammad (al-‘Askari) is the successor after me. He has 
the knowledge which is needed. He has the equipment of the Imamate.” 


[With the same chain of authorities (isnad) on the authority of Ishaq b. 
Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya b. Darriyyat, on the 
authority of Abt Bakr al-Fahfaki, who said:]'! 

9 Al-Kafi, 1, 327, tradition no. 9. 


10 Al-KGfi, 1, 327, tradition no. 10. 
11 Al-Kafi, I, 327-8 tradition no.11. Al-Mufid’s isnad has been corrected. 


479 


Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadt), peace be on him, wrote to me (i.e. Abi Bakr al-Fahfak1): 
“Aba Muhammad, my son, is the soundest of the family of Muhammad in 
excellence and the firmest of them as a proof. He is the eldest of my (surviving) 
sons. To him is the Imamate directed and our laws. Whatever you used to ask me 
about, ask him. He has (everything) which is needed.” 


[With the same chain of authorities (isnad) on the authority of Ishaq b. 
Muhammad, on the authority of Shahawayh b. ‘Abd Allah, who sald:]'? 

Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadt), peace be on him, wrote to me (i.e. Shahawayh b. ‘Abd 
Allah) in a letter (in reply to a letter where) I wanted to ask about the successor 
after (the death of) Abi Ja‘far (Muhammad), peace be on him, and I had become 
anxious because of that. (He wrote:) “Do not be anxious. Allah does not lead 
people astray after He has guided them until He has made clear to them what 
they should fear. Your leader after me is Abi Muhammad (al-‘Askart), my son. 
He has (everything) which they need. Allah brings forward whatever He wishes 
and delays whatever He wishes. We do not cause a verse to be abrogated or 
forgotten without providing a better one or the like of it (II 106). In this is a clear 
explanation and convincing proof for one who has a watchful mind.” 


[Aba al-Qasim (Ja‘far b. Muhammad) informed me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ya‘qib, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority 
of a man who mentioned it, on the authority of Muhammad b. Ahmad al-‘Alawt1, 
on the authority of Dawud b. al-Qasim (Abi Hashim) al-Ja‘fari, who said:]!* 

I (i.e. Dawud b. al-Qasim Abi Hashim al-Ja‘farl) heard Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadi), 
peace be on him, say: “The successor after me is al-Hasan, peace be on him. But 
how will it be for you with regard to the successor after the successor?” 

“May Allah make me your ransom, why?” I asked. 

“You will not see his person,” he said, “nor will the mentioning of his name be 
permitted to you.” 

“Then how will we refer to him?” I enquired. 


“Say ‘the proof from the family of Muhammad’,” he told me. 
28K OK 2K 


Reports of this kind are so numerous that they would (unduly) lengthen the book. 


A SURVEY OF THE REPORTS ABOUT ABU MUHAMMAD (AL-~‘ASKANI, PEACE BE 
ON HIM, HIS VIRTUES, SIGNS AND MIRACLES. 


[Aba al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of 


12 Al-K@fi, 1, 328. tradition no. 12 
13 Al-KGfi, 1, 328, tradition no. 13 


480 


Muhammad b. Ya‘qib, on the authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad al-Ash‘ari 
and Muhammad b. Yahya and others, who said:]'4 

Ahmad b. ‘Ubayd Allah b. al-Khaqan was in charge of estates (diyd‘) and the 
land-tax in Qumm. During his assembly one day the ‘Alawites (1.e. family of 
‘Alt) and their beliefs were mentioned. He was violently anti-Shi‘a and far away 
from (favouring) the House, peace be on them. He said: I have not seen or known 
in Samarra’ a man from the ‘Alawites like al-Hasan b. ‘Alt b. Muhammad b. 
‘Alt al-Rida in his manner, his quietness, his self-restraint, his nobility and his 
greatness in the eyes of all the House (ahi al-bayt) and the Bant Hashim, so that 
they gave him precedence over those older than him and those of importance. 
His situation is the same with the military commanders, the ministers and the 
common people. I remember that one day I was standing beside my father - and 
it was the day of his assembly for the people - when his chamberlains came in. 
They told him that Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askari), the descendant of al- 
Rida was at the door. He said in a loud voice: “Give him permission to enter.” 
I was amazed at what I had heard from them at their daring to give a man his 
kunya (i.e. to call him Abii -) in the presence of my father. For in front of him 
only a caliph was given his kunya, or an heir-apparent or a man whose authority 
(entitled him) to be given his kunya. A brown man entered. He was well-built, 
handsome, with an excellent physique and young in years. He had dignity and a 
fine appearance. When my father looked at him, he rose and walked some steps 
towards him. I have not known him do this to any other member of Bant' Hashim 
and the military commanders. When he was near him, he embraced him, kissed 
his face and breast. He took him by his hand and sat him down on his prayer- 
mat which he had been sitting on. He sat beside him facing him and began to 
speak to him and to use the honorific expression - may I be your ransom. I was 
amazed at what I saw. Then the chamberlain entered and said al-Muwaffaq had 
come. When al-Muwaffaq visited my father, his chamberlains and the special 
men among his military commanders preceded him and erected between the 
assembly of my father and the door two curtains until he came and left. My 
father continued to face Abi: Muhammad (al-‘Askar1) until he saw the servants 
of the court. Then he said to him: “If you please, may I be your ransom.” Then 
he said to his chamberlains: “Take him behind two curtains so that this man 
does not seem him” - meaning al-Muwaffaq. Then he stood up and my father 
stood up and embraced him and he went. I said to my father’s chamberlains and 
servants: “Shame on you, who is this man whom you have called by his 
kunya in the presence of my father and with whom my father has behaved in this 
manner?” They said: “This is an ‘Alawite called al-Hasan b. ‘Ali who is 
known as Ibn al-Rida (ie. a descendant of al-Rida).” I grew more astonished. I 
continued, (in a way) which indicates anxiety, to think about his affair and my 


14 AL-Ka@fi, 1, 503-6. tradition no. 1 


481 


father’s affair and what I had seen until it was night. It was his custom to say 
the late night prayer and then to sit and consider what plans he needed to make 
and whom he should raise to (positions of) authority. After he had prayed and sat 
down, I went and sat before him. No one else was with him and he said to me: 
“Ahmad, you want something?” 

“Yes, father,” I replied, “if you will permit me, I will ask you about it.” 

“You have my permission,” he answered. 

“Father, who was the man to whom, this morning, I saw you give (so much) 
respect, honour and glory - using the phrase - may you ransom him with yourself 
and your parents?” 


“My son, that was the Imam of the Rafidites, al-Hasan b. ‘Alt who is known as 
Ibn al- Rida,” he replied. Then he was silent for a time and I was silent. Then 
he said: “My son, if the Imamate was to be taken from our caliphs, the Bani 
‘Abbas, none of the Bani Hashim would be more entitled to it than him because 
of his great merit, his self-restraint, his modesty, his asceticism, his devotion (to 
Allah), his high morality and his righteousness. If you had seen his father, you 
would have seen a good, noble, excellent man.” 


I grew more anxious, thoughtful and distressed at my father and what I had 
heard from him concerning (that man). I had seen his behaviour towards him. 
My sole concern after that was to seek out information about him and to study 
his affair. I did not ask anyone from the Banti Hashim, the military commanders, 
the secretaries, the judges, the religious jurists and the rest of the people without 
finding that he was given by them eminence, greatness, distinguished position, 
kind words and precedence. (This was) over all his House and scholars. His rank 
was so magnified to me since I never saw a friend or an enemy of his except that 
he had good words and praise for him. 


One of the Ash‘arites who was present at (my father’s) assembly asked him: 
“Have you any information about his brother, Ja‘far, and how his position was?” 


“Who is Ja‘far,” he said “that he should be asked about or compared with al- 
Hasan? He is a public sinner, a profligate, a winebibber. He is one of the least 
worthy men whom I have seen, the most shameful in himself and insignificant 
in himself.” 


Yet he came to authority and to have followers at the time of al-Hasan b. ‘AIi’s 
death. What I found surprising in him and did not think that he would do was 
this. When (al-Hasan) was ill, he sent to my father that Ibn al-Rida was ill. He 
(my father) rode to the Caliph’s palace. Then he returned quietly with five close 


482 


trusted servants of the Commander of the faithful. Among them was Nahrir. He 
ordered them to stay at al-Hasan’s house and to investigate reports about him 
and his condition. He sent to a number of medical specialists and ordered them 
to go to him and to supervise him morning and night. Two or three days later, 
he was informed that he was weak. He ordered the medical specialists to stay at 
his house. He sent to the chief gadi (judge) and made him attend his assembly. 
He told him to choose ten men who were trustworthy in religion, piety and in 
loyalty. He sent them to the house of al-Hasan, peace be on him, and ordered 
them to stay with him day and night. They remained there until he died, peace be 
on him. When the news of his death spread around, Samarra’ became one uproar. 
The markets were empty. Bani Hashim, the military leaders, the secretaries, 
the judges, the attestators and the rest of the people (all) rode to his funeral. On 
that day Samarra seemed like the (day of) Resurrection. When they had finished 
the preparations for him, the authorities sent to Abii ‘Isa b. al-Mutawakkil and 
ordered him to say the (funeral) prayer over him. When the bier was put down for 
the prayer (to be said) over it, Abu ‘Isa came up to it. He uncovered (al-Hasan’s) 
face and showed it to the Bani Hashim, both the ‘Alawites and the ‘Abbasids, 
the military leaders, the secretaries, the judges and the attestators. He said: “This 
is al-Hasan b. ‘Alt b, Muhammad b. al-Rida, peace be on them. He has died. 
He departed from life on his bed. So-and-so and so-and-so attended him from 
among the servants of the Commander of the faithful, so-and-so and so-and-so 
from among the judges, and so-and-so and so-and-so from among the medical 
specialists.” 


Then he covered (al-Hasan’s) face and said the prayer over him and ordered him 
to be taken (to be buried). After he had been buried, Ja‘far b. ‘Ali, his brother, 
came to my father and said: “Give me the rank of my brother and I will let you 
have twenty thousand dinars each year.” 


My father repelled him roughly and made him hear what was (even) unpleasant 
to me. He said to him: “You fellow, you ignorant one, the Caliph, may Allah 
make his life long, has unsheathed his sword against those who claim that your 
father and your brother were Imams in order to bring them back from that (view). 
He has not succeeded in this. If you were an Imam in the eyes of the Shi‘a of your 
father and your brother, you would have no need of the Caliph to give you their 
rank, nor of anyone else. If you do not have this position according to them, you 
will not gain it through us.” 


At that my father dismissed him and humiliated him. He ordered that he should 
be excluded and he never gave him permission to enter until he died. 


483 


We had gone out while he was still in that situation. The authorities were 
demanding an investigation for clues about the son of al-Hasan b. ‘Ali at that 
time. They did not find any means of (finding out about) that. Yet his Shi‘a 
persist in maintaining that when he died, he left a son who would take his place 
in the Imamate. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Isma‘il b. Ibrahim b. Misa b. Ja‘far, who said:]'° 

Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart), peace be on him, wrote to Abi al-Qasim 
Ishaq b. Ja‘far al-Zubayri about twenty days before the death of al-Mu‘tazz: 
“Keep to your house until the event takes place.” 


When Burayha was killed, (Abi al-Qasim Ishaq) wrote to him: “The event has 
taken place. What do you command me to do?” 

(Al-Hasan al-‘Askart) wrote (back) to him: “This was not the event. It is another 
event.” 

Then there happened to al-Mu‘tazz what happened. 


[(Muhammad b. Isma‘t1l) added: ] 
He wrote to another man that Muhammad b. Dawud would be killed ten days 
before his murder. On the tenth day he was killed. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad b. Ibrahim, known as Ibn al- 
Kurdi, on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Ali b. Ibrahim b. Misa b. Ja‘far, who 
said:]'¢ 

Circumstances became difficult for us and my father (‘Ali b. Ibrahim b. Misa) 
said to me: “Come with me to this man - meaning Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan 
al-‘ Askar) - for he has been described as being generous.” 

“Do you know him?” J asked. 

“T do not know him,” he answered, “nor have I ever seen him.” 


We set off. While my father was on the road, my father said to me: “What we 
need is that he should order for us five hundred dirhams: two hundred dirhams 
for clothing, two hundred dirhams for flour and a hundred for expenses.” 

I said to myself: “Would that he would order for me three hundred dirhams: one 
hundred dirhams to buy a donkey with, one hundred dirhams for expenses and 
one hundred dirhams for clothing. Then I could go to al-Jabal.” 


15 Al-KGfi, 1, 506, tradttion no. 2. 
16 Al-KGfi, 1, 506-7, tradition no. 3. 


484 


When we came to the door, his servant came out to us: “Enter ‘Alt b. Ibrahim and 
his son, Muhammad .” 

We entered and he greeted us. He said to my father: “‘Ali, what has kept you 
from us until this time?” 

“My lord,’ he answered, “I have been ashamed to meet you in these 
circumstances.” 


When we left him, his servant came to us and gave my father a purse. He said: 
“This is five hundred dirhams: two hundred for clothing, two hundred for flour 
and a hundred for expenses.” 

He gave me a purse and said: “This is three hundred dirhams. Use one hundred 
for the price of a donkey, one hundred for clothing and one hundred for expenses. 
But do not go to al-Jabal. Go to Suwar.” 


[Muhammad b. Ibrahim al-Kurdi added:] 

He (i.e. Muhammad b. ‘Ali ) went to Suwar and married a woman there. His 
income today is two thousand dinars but he still believes in the Waqf (i.e the 
last Imam was Misa). I (i.e. Muhammad b. Ibrahim al-Kurdi) have said to him: 
“Shame on you, do you need anything clearer than that?” 

“True,” he replied, “however we hold a doctrine which has been passed down 
through our (family).” 


[Abd al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Al7 b. Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. ‘Alt b. Ibrahim, who said: Ahmad b. al-Harith al-Qazwini told me:]!” 

I Ge. Ahmad b. al-Harith al-Qazwint) was with my father at Samarra’. My 
father was employed as a veterinary surgeon in the stable of Abi Muhammad 
(al-Hasan al-‘Askari) peace be on him. Al-Musta‘tn had a mule whose like in 
beauty and stoutness has never been seen. Yet it refused (to have anyone on) its 
back and (to have) reins. The trainers had tried to make it comply but they did not 
have any trick by which they could ride it. One of his bosom companions said to 
(al-Musta‘In): “Commander of the faithful, send for al-Hasan the descendant of 
al-Rida to come, either he will ride it or it will kill him.” 


He sent for Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askari), peace be on him. My father 
went with him. When Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askar1) entered the palace, 
I was with my father. Abu Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart), peace be on him, 
looked at the mule standing in the courtyard of the palace. He went straight up 
to it and put his hand on its buttocks. I looked at the mule and it was sweating 
so that the sweat was pouring off it. Then he went to al-Musta‘In and greeted 


17 Al-KGfi, 1, 507, tradition no. 4. 


485 


him. The latter welcomed him, brought him close to his seat and said: “Abt 
Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askari), put reins on this mule.” 

“Put reins on it, servant,” Aba Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart) told my father. 
“You, rein it,” al-Musta‘in said to him. 


Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askar1) put on his cloak. Then he rose and put the 
reins on it. He went back to his place and sat down 

“Abt: Muhammad ,” said al-Musta‘in, “saddle it.” 

“Servant, saddle it,” he said to my father. 

“You, saddle it,” al-Musta‘In said to him. 


He rose a second time and saddled it. Then he returned. 
“Do you think that you could ride it?” (al- Musta‘tn) asked him. 
“Yes,” answered Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askar1). 


Then he mounted it without it resisting him. He galloped it through (the 
courtyard of) the palace. He made it canter at a gentle pace and then it walked 
beautifully. Then he came back and dismounted. 

“How did you find it, Abi Muhammad ?” al-Musta‘In asked him. 

“T have not seen its like in beauty and liveliness,” he answered. 

“The Commander of the faithful gives it to you,” al-Musta‘tn told him. 
“Servant, take it,” Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart) ordered my father. 
My father took it and lead it away. 


[Abi Ahmad b. Rashid reported on the authority of Abu Hashim al-Ja‘fari, who 
said:]'® 

I G.e. Abu Hashim al-Ja‘fari) complained to Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. ‘Ali 
(al-‘Askart), peace be on them, about my needs. He rubbed his whip on the 
ground. He took out from it an ingot which (was worth) five hundred dinars. 
“Take it, Abi: Hashim,” he said, “‘and forgive us.” 


[Aba al-Qasim (Ja‘far b. Muhammad) informed me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ya‘qib, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority 
of Abi ‘Abd Allah b. Salih, on the authority of his father, on the authority of Abt 
‘Alt al-Mutahhart:]!° 

He (i.e. Abu ‘Ali al-Mutahhart) wrote to him (i.e. al-Hasan al-‘ Askar) from al- 
Qadisiyya to inform him of the people’s desertion of going on the pilgrimage 
and that they were afraid of thirst if they went. He (al-Hasan al-‘Askar1) wrote to 
him: “Go and have no fear, Allah willing.” 


18 Al-KGfi, 1, 507, tradttion no. 5. Al-Mufid’s isndd is shortened. 
19 Al-KGfi, 1, 507-8, tradition no. 6. 


486 


Then those who had held back departed in safety. 


[Aba al-Qasim (Ja‘far b. Muhammad) informed me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ya‘qib, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority 
of ‘Ali b. al-Hasan b. al-Fadl al-Yamani, who said:]°° 

A great crowd of the supporters of Ja‘far (al-Mutawakkil) descended on the area 
around the river (known as) al-Ja‘fart and a man did not have sufficient means 
to oppose them. He wrote to Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askari), peace be 
on him, complaining of that. He wrote back: “You will have enough for them, 
Allah willing.” 


Then that man went against them with a small group while the people were more 
than twenty thousand souls. He was with less than a thousand but he managed 
to defeat them. 


With the same chain of authorities (isnad), on the authority of Muhammad b. 
Isma ‘Il al-‘Alawi, who said:]*! 

Abia Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askari), peace be on him, was detained by ‘Alt 
b. Awtamish. The latter was violent in his hostility to the family of Muhammad, 
peace be on them, and severe on the family of Abu Talib. He was told to treat 
him (badly) and he did so. Yet (al-Hasan al-‘Askari) was only with him for a 
day and he began to treat him with humility. He did not raise his eyes to him out 
of respect and honour. He would come from him and he had become the most 
perceptive of men in respect to him and the best of them in his words about him. 


[Ishaq b. Muhammad al-Nakha‘T reported: Abii Hashim al-Ja‘fari told me:]” 

I complained to Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart) about the oppressiveness 
of prison and the harshness of the chains. He wrote to me: “You will pray today’s 
noon prayer in your own house.” 

I was released at noon and prayed the noon prayer in my house as he had said. 


I was in a distressed state and I wanted to ask him for help in a letter which I 
had written to him but I was ashamed to send it. When I went to my house, he 
sent me a hundred dinars and he wrote to me: “When you are in need, do not 
be ashamed and do not refrain. Ask for it and you will be given what you need, 
Allah willing.” 


[With the same chain of authorities (isndd) on the authority of Ahmad b. 
20 AI-KGfi, I, 508, tradition no. 7 


21 Al-KGfi, I, 508, tradition no. 8. 
22 Al-K@fi, I, 508, tradition no. 10. 


487 


Muhammad al-Aqra‘, who said: Abi Hamza Nasir al-Khadim told me:]?? 

I G.e. Aba Hamza) heard Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askar1) speaking on 
more than one occasion to his servants in their own languages. Among them 
were Turks, men from Byzantium and from Saqaliba (in the Caucasus). I was 
amazed at that and I said: “This man was born in Medina. He did not show 
himself to anyone until Abi al-Hasan (al-Hadr) died, and no one saw him. How 
is this?” 


I was saying this to myself. He came up to me and said: “Allah has separated His 
proof (to the world) from the rest of His creatures and has given him knowledge 
of everything. He knows languages, genealogies and events. If it wasn’t for that, 
there would be no difference between the proof and those who are given the 
proof.” 


[With the same chain of authorities (isndd): Al-Husayn b. Zarif told me:]** 

Two problems occupied my mind and I (i.e. Al-Husayn b. Zarif) wanted to 
write to Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘ Askari) peace be on him, about them. I 
wrote to ask him about how when the one who would undertake (the Imamate 
for the rest of time) (al-qga’im) would undertake his office, he would give his 
judgements and how his assembly would be in which he gave judgements 
between the people. I (also) wanted to ask him about something for the 
quotidian fever. I forgot to mention the fever. The answer came: “You asked 
about the one who will undertake (the office of the Imamate for the rest of time) 
(al-qa@’im). When he undertakes his office, he will give judgements among the 
people through his knowledge just as David judged without asking for evidence. 
You wanted to ask about the quotidian fever but you forgot. Write on a paper 
and hang it over the person with the fever: O fire, be cold and a place of safety 
for Abraham (XXI 69).” I wrote down that and hung it over the person with the 
fever. He woke up recovered. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the authority of ‘AlT b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ishaq b. 
Muhammad al-Nakha‘t, who said: Isma‘tl b. Muhammad b. ‘Ali b Isma‘il b. ‘Ali 
b. ‘Abd Allah b. al-‘ Abbas told me:]”° 

I dsma‘il b. Muhammad) sat waiting for Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askari), 
peace be on him, at the side of the road. When he passed me, I complained to 
him of a need (which I had). I swore to him that I did not have a dirham, nor any 
more than it, nor had I had any breakfast or supper. 


23 Al-K@fi, I, 509, tradition no. 11. 


24 Al-KGfi, I, 509, tradition no. 13. 
25 Al-KGfi, I, 509-10, tradition no. 14. 


488 


“You swear by Allah as a liar,” he said. “You have buried two hundred dinars. 
However, I am not saying this as a way of not giving you anything. Servant, give 
him what you have with you.” 


His servant gave me a hundred dinars. Then he came towards me and said to me: 
“You will be denied the dmars which you buried at a time when your need for 
them will be much greater than at present.” 


He, peace be on him, spoke the truth. In fact, I spent what he gave me. Hard 
necessity forced me to pay for something and the means of gaining provision 
(from the authorities) were closed to me. I dug for the dinars which I had buried 
and I did not find them. I looked. One of my sons knew where they were. He had 
taken them and fled. I could not do anything. 


[With the same chain of authorities (isnad), on the authority of Ishaq b. 
Muhammad al-Nakha‘t, who said: ‘Ali b. Zayd b. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn told us]*° 

I Ge. ‘Alt b. Zayd) had a horse and as a result of it being frequently mentioned 
in assemblies I was pleased. One day, I visited Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al- 
‘Askari), peace be on him. He asked me: “What is your horse doing?” 

“It is with me,” I answered. “Here it is at your door. I have just dismounted it.” 
“Exchange it before evening if you can find a purchaser and don’t delay,” he told 
me. 


A visitor came in and the conversation came to an end. I got up thinking and 
went to my house. I told my brother and he said to me: “I do not know what to 
say about this.” 


However, I was jealous of it and regarded people as unworthy to buy it. Evening 
came. When I had prayed the night prayer, the groom came to me and said: “My 
master, your horse has just died.” 

I was stricken with grief. I knew that (al-Hasan al-‘Askar1) had meant this by 
those words. Some days later, I went to visit Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan al- 
‘Askari), peace be on him. I was saying to myself: “I wish that he would replace 
it for me with (another) animal.” 


I sat down and before I could speak, he said to me: “Yes, boy, we will replace it 
for you. Servant, give him my dark bay horse.” Then he said: “This is better and 
firmer-footed and longer living than your horse was.” 


[ With the same chain of authorities (isn@d) Muhammad b. al-Hasan b. Shammiin 
26 Al-K@fi, I, 510, tradition no. 15. 


489 


told us: Ahmad b. Muhammad told me:]”’ 

I (i.e. Ahmad b. Muhammad) wrote to Abu Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘ Askari), 
peace be on him, at the time al-Muhtadi began to kill the slaves (mawali): “My 
master, praise be to Allah Who has distracted him from us. I have heard that he 
is threatening you and saying: ‘By Allah, I will drive them from the face of the 
earth.’” 


Abit Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askari) signed the reply in his own handwriting. 
(It was as follows:) “There is only a short time for him (i.e. al-Muhtadr) to live. 
Count from the day you (receive this) five days and he will be killed on the sixth 
day after humiliation and degradation of his rank.” 

It happened as he, peace be on him, said. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Isma‘il b. Ibrahim b. Misa b. Ja‘far, who said:]”8 

The ‘Abbasids went to Salih b. Wasif when Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al- 
‘Askarl) peace be on him, was imprisoned. They told him:’Be hard On him. 
Don’t give him any ease.” 

“What can I do with him?” Salih asked them, “I entrusted him to two of the 
evilest men I could find. They have become (men) of worship, prayer and fasting 
to an amazing extent” 


Then he ordered those two men who had been put in charge of (al-Hasan 
al-‘Askari) to be brought. He said to them: “Shame on you! What is your 
involvement in the affairs of this man?” 


They answered: “What can we say about a man who fasts through the day and 
stands (in prayer) through the night, who does not speak and occupies himself 
with nothing except worship? When he looks at us, our limbs shake and within 
us is (a feeling) which we have never had.” 

When the ‘Abbasids heard that, they left in despair. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘All b. Muhammad, on the authority of a group of 
our colleagues, who said:]°? 

Aba Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart), peace be on him, was handed over to 
Nahrir. He was hard on him and did harm to him. A woman said to him: “Fear 


27 Al-Ka@fi, I, 510, tradttion no. 16. 


28 Al-Kafi, I, 512, tradttion no. 23. 
29 Al-KGfi, I, 513, tradition no. 26. 


490 


Allah, you do not realise who is in your house.” She told him about (al-Hasan’s) 
righteousness and devotion (to Allah) and said: “I fear for you as a result of him.” 
“By Allah, Ill throw him to the wild animals,” he declared. 


He asked permission to do that and it was granted. He threw him to them. (The 
authorities) were not disturbed by (wild animals) eating him. They looked at 
the place in order to find out the situation. They found him, peace be on him. 
standing in prayer with (the wild animals) around him. (Nahrir) ordered him to 
be taken back to his house. 


Reports on these matters are numerous. Those we have given are sufficient for 
our purpose, Allah willing. 


THE ACCOUNT OF THE DEATH OF ABU MUHAMMAD AL-HASAN B. ‘ALT (AL- 
‘ASKARI), PEACE BE ON HIM, THE PLACE OF HIS GRAVE AND THE REPORT 
ABOUT HIS SON 


Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan al- al-‘Askar1), fell sick on the 1st on the month of 
Rabi‘ al-Awwal in the year 260 A.H. (873). He died on Friday, 8th of that month 
in the same year. At the time of his death he was twenty-eight years old. He was 
buried in the house in which his father was buried - the house for both of them 
was in Samarra’. He left behind his son - the one who is awaited (to bring about) 
the state of truth. He had concealed his birth and hidden his affair because of 
the difficulties of the times and the intensity of the search by the authorities of 
the time for him. This activity by them to enquire into his affair was because of 
what circulated among the adherents (madhhab) of the Shi‘a of the Imamites 
concerning him, and because of what was known about their awaiting him. (AI- 
Hasan al-‘Askari) did not make his son publicly known during his life-time and 
the ordinary people were not able to recognise him after his death. 


Ja‘far b. ‘Alt, the brother of Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart), peace be 
on him, took it upon himself to seize what (al-Hasan al- al-‘Askar1) had left. He 
strove to detain the women slaves of Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart), 
peace be on him, and to imprison his wives. He made vicious insinuations against 
(al-Hasan’s) followers for awaiting his son, for affirming his existence and for 
maintaining his Imamate. He harassed the people so that he made them afraid 
and scared them away. Because of that, all this terrible treatment in terms of 
detention, imprisonment, threats, disparagement, degradation and humiliation 
occurred for those who were left by Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan al-“Askar1), peace 
be on him. Yet the authorities did not gain any information. Ja‘far took public 


491 


possession of (the property) which Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘ Askari), peace 
be on him, had left. He strove to take his place in the eyes of the Shi‘a. However, 
none of them would accept that nor believe him with regard to it. He went to the 
authorities of the time seeking the position of his brother. He offered them a great 
deal of money. He offered them everything by which he thought that he could 
advance himself. Yet he convinced no one of that. 


There are numerous reports of Ja‘far to this effect, which I feel it appropriate not 
to mention for reasons whose explanation does not concern this book . They are 
well-known among the Imamites and those who know the account of the general 
populace (‘@mma - non-Shi‘a). We seek help from Allah. 


492

[[p 37]]
CHAPTER XI 


THE TWELFTH IMAM 


(This chapter) deals with the one who undertook (the office of the Imamate) (a/- 
qa im) after Aba Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart), peace be on him, the date 
of his birth and the evidence for his Imamate. It will mention an extract from the 
reports about him, his occultation (ghayba), his life at the time of his appearance 
(givam) and the period of time of his state. 


The Imam after Abi: Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘ Askari), peace be on him, is his 
son who is named with the name of the Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family, and given his kunya. His father did not leave a son who was 
publicly acknowledged or secretly, except him. He was left behind away from 
view (ghd ib) and secretly as we have already mentioned. He was born on the 
night of 15th of Sha‘ban in the year 255 A.H. (869). His mother was a slave-wife 
(umm walad) called Narjis. At the time of the death of his father, he was five 
years old. 


Allah endowed him with wisdom and the distinction of speech. He made him 
a sign to the worlds. He endowed him with wisdom as He had endowed John 
the Baptist while still a boy. He made him an Imam while still in the state of 
apparent childhood just as He made Jesus, son of Mary, a prophet in the cradle. 
The nomination of him had been given earlier to the community of Islam by the 
Prophet of guidance, peace be on him, then by the Commander of the Faithful, 
‘Alt b. Abi Talib, peace be on him, and the Imams, consecutively one after 
another, down to his own father, al-Hasan (al-‘Askart), peace be on him, 
had nominated him. His father had nominated him in front of the trusted and 
close members of his Shi‘a. Information about his occultation (ghayba) was 
established before his existence. (Information) about his state was widespread 
before his occultation (ghayba). He is the leader with the sword (sahib al-sayf) 
from the Imams of guidance, peace be on them, the one who will undertake the 
achievement of truth (al-qa’im bi-al-haqq), the one who is awaited (al-muntazar) 
to (bring about) the state of faith. 


Before his appearance (giyam), he will have two occultations. One of them will 
be longer than the other as is reported in the traditions. The shortest of them was 
from the time of his birth to the end of the period of direct representation (sifara) 
between him and his Shi‘a, and the end of the representatives (sufara’) through 
death. As for the longer (occultation), it will be after the first and at the end of it 


493 


he will arise with the sword (vaqim bi-al-sayf). Allah, the Mighty and High, has 
said: We want to favour those who were weak on earth. We give them Imams and 
We give them heirs. We give them power on earth. We show Pharoah and Haman 
and their soldiers but they will not be warned (XXVIII 5-6). He, exalted be His 
name, said: We have written in the Psalms after the message (to Moses): My 
righteous worshippers will inherit the earth (XXI 105). The Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “The days and nights will never end 
until Allah sends a man from my House, whose name will be the same as mine. 
He will fill (the earth) with justice and fairness as it was filled with oppression 
and tyranny.” He, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “If only a single 
day remained for the world, Allah would lengthen that day so that He could send 
on it a man from my descendants, whose name is the same as mine. He will fill 
the world with justice and fairness as it was filled with oppression and tyranny.” 


EXTRACT FROM THE EVIDENCE FOR THE IMAMATE OF THE ONE WHO WILL 
UNDERTAKE TO (BRING ABOUT) TRUTH (41-Q4’IM BI-AL-H4QQ) THE SON OF 
AL-HASAN, PEACE BE ON THEM. 


Among the evidence for that is what is required by reason through sound logical 
deduction (istidlal) with regard to the existence in every age of an Imam, who 
is infallible, perfect and one who has no need of his subjects with regard to the 
laws and knowledge, because of the impossibility of those given responsibility 
(to act) being without an authority by whose existence they may come closer to 
righteousness and further from corruption. Everyone who is deficient has need 
of one who will punish criminals, who will correct the disobedient, who will 
quieten the seducers, who will teach the ignorant, who will remind the careless, 
who will warn those who have gone astray, who will administer the revealed 
penal law (Audid), who will carry out the laws, who will separate people in 
dispute, who will appoint the (military) commanders, who will hold the 
frontiers, who will safeguard property, who will defend the land of Islam, who 
will join with the people in societies and festivals. The chief proposition in 
support of the evidence that he is protected from errors is, by agreement, his own 
lack of need for an Imam. That requires his protection (from sin) without any 
doubt and by the necessity of the textual definition for every creature who can 
consider it as a means (of proof) and by virtue of the miracles which he performs 
in order to distinguish himself from others. The lack of these qualities in every- 
one except the one whose Imamate was confirmed by the followers of al-Hasan 
b. ‘Alt (al-‘Askari), peace be on him - and he is his son the Mahdi (the one who 
is guided and guides) - is based on what we have explained. This is a principle 
which, nonetheless, requires, with regard to the Imamate, the narration of 
nominations and the reckoning of the reports which are given concerning them, 


494 


in order to confirm itself with regard to rational judgement and its validity by the 
corroboration of logical deduction. 


There have been handed down narrations concerning the nomination of the son 
of al-Hasan (al-‘Askart), peace be on him, in ways by which excuses (for not 
accepting it) are removed. Allah willing, I will present an extract from them 
according to the method used earlier of giving a brief outline. 


THE REPORTS OF THE NOMINATION OF THE IMAMATE OF THE LEADER OF 
THE (REST) OF TIME (S4H7B AL-ZAMAN) THE TWELFTH OF THE IMAMS, THE 
BLESSINGS OF ALLAH ON THEM ALL, AND AN EXPLANATION OF THE EVIDENCE. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qtb al-Kulayni, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Ibrahim, on the authority of 
Muhammad b. ‘Isa, on the authority of Muhammad b. al-Fadl, on the authority 
of Abu Hamza al-Thumal1, on the authority of Abu Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be 
on him:]! 

He (i.e. al-Baqir) said: “Allah, may His name be mighty, sent Muhammad 
to jinn and mankind. After him He made twelve testamentary trustees of 
authority (wasi). Of these some have already come before and others remain 
(to come). A practice has been in operation for each testamentary trustee of 
authority (wasi). The testamentary trustees of authority (awsiya’) who came after 
Muhammad, may Allah bless Him and His Family, were accordmg to the practice 
(established) by Jesus, peace be on him, and they (the awsiya’ of Jesus) were 
twelve. Thus, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, was (the first 
wasi after Muhammad) according to the practice (established) by (Jesus), the 
Messiah, peace be on him.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya, on the authority of Ahmad b. 
Muhammad b. ‘Isa, Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah, Muhammad b. al-Husayn, all on 
the authority of Sahl b. Ziyad, on the authority of al-Hasan b. al-‘Abbas, on the 
authority of Abu Ja‘far the second (i.e. Muhammad al-Jawad), on the authority 
of his father back to the authority of the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on 
them, who said:] 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said to his 
Companions: “Believe in the Night of Decision (/aylat al-qadr). On it the 
command for the religious practice (sunna) was revealed and because of that 
order there exist friends of Allah (wuld?) after me - ‘Ali b. Abi Talib and eleven 
of his descendants.” 


1 Al-Kafi, 1, 532, tradition no. 10. 


495 


[With the same chain of authorities (isndd):] 

The Commander of the faithful, peace be on him, told Ibn ‘Abbas, may Allah 
have mercy on him: “The Night of Decision is (concerned) with every religious 
practice (sunna). On that night, the command for the religious practice (sunna) 
was revealed and because of that order there are friends of Allah (wuld?) after the 
Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family.” 


“Who are they?” asked Ibn ‘Abbas. 
“Myself and eleven (descended) from my loins. Imams who are addressed (by 
the angels),” he answered. 


[Abd al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. al-Hasan, on the authority of Ibn Mahbib, on the authority of Abi al-Jarid, on 
the authority of Abi Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘Ali (al-Bagir), peace be on him, on 
the authority of Jair b. ‘Abd Allah al-Ansari, who said:]* 

I (i.e. Jair b. ‘Abd Allah) visited Fatima, the daughter of the Apostle of Allah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family. In her hands was a tablet (Jawh) in which 
was (inscribed) the testamentary trustees of authority (awsiya’), the Imams 
from her offspring. I counted twelve names, the last of them was the one who 
will undertake the office for the rest of time (a/l-qa’im). Of the descendants of 
Fatima, three of the (names) were Muhammad and three of them were ‘AI1. 


[Abi al-Qasim informed me on the authority of Muhammad b. Ya‘qub, on the 
authority of Abi ‘Ali al-Ash‘ari, on the authority of al-Hasan b. ‘Ubayd Allah, 
on the authority of al-Hasan b. Musa al-Khashshab, on the authority of ‘Ali b. 
Sumt‘a, on the authority of ‘Ali b. al-Hasan b. Ribat, on the authority of Ibn 
Udhayna, on the authority of Zurara, who said:}° 

I (i.e. Zurara) heard Abu Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on him, say: “The twelve 
Imams from the family of Muhammad, all of whom are addressed (by the an- 
gels) are ‘Alt b. Abt Talib and eleven of his descendants. The Apostle of Allah 
and ‘Ali b. Abi Talib are the two progenitors (of them), peace be on them both.” 


[Abi al-Qasim informed me on the authority of Muhammad b. Ya‘qub, on the 
authority of ‘Alt b. Ibrahim, on the authority of his father (Ibrahtm b. Hashim), 
on the authority of Ibn Abi ‘Umayr, on the authority of Sa‘td b. Ghazwan, on 
the authority of Abt Basir, on the authority of Abu Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on 
him:]* 

2 Al-Kaft, 1, 532, tradition no. 9. 


3 Al-KGfi, 1, 533, tradition no. 14. 
4 Al-Kafi, 1, 533, tradition no. 15. 


496 


He (al-Baqir) said: “After al-Husayn, there will be nine Imams, the ninth of 
them will be the one of them who will undertake the office for the rest of time 


(qa’im).” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of al-Husayn b. Muhammad, on the authority of 
Mu‘alla b. Muhammad, on the authority of al-Washsha, on the authority of Aban, 
on the authority of Zurara, who said:]° 

I (ec. Zurara) heard Abt Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on him, say: “There will be 
twelve Imams. Among them are al-Hasan and al-Husayn. Then the Imams are 
from the descendants of al-Husayn, peace be on him.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Al7 b. Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. ‘Alt b. Bilal, who said:]° 

There came to me (i.e. Muhammad b. ‘Ali b. Bilal) (information) from Abu 
Muhammad al-Hasan b. ‘Ali al-‘Askari, peace be on him, informing me of 
his successor after him two years before his death. Then (again) three days 
before his death there came to me information (from him) informing me of his 
successor after him. 


[Aba al-Qasim (Ja‘far b. Muhammad) informed me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ya‘qtib, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya, on the 
authority of Ahmad b. Ishaq, on the authority of Abii Hashim al-Ja‘fari, who 
said:]’ 

I (Abi Hashim al-Ja‘fart) said to Abu Muhammad al-Hasan b. ‘Ali (al-‘Askari), 
peace be on them: “Your exaltedness prevents me from questioning you. Would 
you permit me to question you?” 

“Ask.” he said. 

“My lord, have you a son?” J asked. 

“Yes,” he answered. 

“Tf anything happens to you, where will I ask about him?” I said 

“In Medina,” he replied. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ja‘far b. 
Muhammad al-Kiafi, on the authority of Ja‘far b. Muhammad al-Makfuf, on the 
authority of ‘Amr al-Ahwazi, who said:]® 

5 Al-Kafi, 1, 533, tradttion no. 16. 

6 AL-KGfi, I, 328, tradition no. 1. 


7 Al-KG@fi, I, 328, tradition no. 2. 
8 Al-K@fi, I, 328, tradition no. 3 


497 


Abu Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘ Askari), peace be on him, showed me his son and 
said: “This is your leader after me.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority of Hamdan 
al-Qalanisi, on the authority of al-‘Umart, who said:]? 

(al-‘Umart) said: “Abu Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart), peace be on him, has 
died and has left his son as his successor.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of al-Husayn 
b. Muhammad, on the authority of Mu‘alla b. Muhammad, on the authority of 
Ahmad b. Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah, who said:]'° 

(An announcement) came from Abu Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askart), peace 
be on him, when al-Zubayri (i.e. al-Muhtadi), may Allah curse him, was killed: 
“This is the reward of one who is bold before Allah, the Exalted, in (his treatment 
of) His friends (awliva’). He claimed that he would kill me and that I did not 
have any offspring. How does he consider the power of Allah now with regard 
to (that son)?” 


[(Ahmad b.) Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah added:] 
A son was born to him. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of those who 
report it, on the authority of Muhammad b. Ahmad al-‘Alawt, on the authority of 
Dawud b. al-Qasim al-Ja‘fart (Abt: Hashim), who said:]"! 

I (i.e. Dawud b. al-Qasim al-Ja‘fart) heard Abu al-Hasan ‘Ali b. Muhammad (al- 
Hadrt) say: “The successor after me is al-Hasan. But how will it be for you with 
regard to the successor after the successor?” 

“May Allah make me your ransom, why?” I asked. 

“You will not see his person,” he said, “nor will the mentioning of his name be 
permitted to you.” 


“Then how will we refer to him?” I enquired. 


“Say - the proof from the family of Muhammad, peace be on them,” he told me. 
OK 2 2 2K 


9 Al-Kaft, 1, 329, tradition no. 4. 
10 Al-KGfi, 1, 329, tradition no. 5. Al-Mufid omits 256 A.H. as the year of the birth. 
11 Al-Kafi, I, 328, tradition no. 13. 


498 


This is an extract which comes from the reports handed down concerning the 
nominations of the twelfth of the Imams, peace be on them. The narrations 
about that are numerous. The followers of this group have written them and 
confirmed them in the books which they have compiled. Among those who have 
presented them with explanation and detail is Muhammad b. Ibrahtm, whose 
ktinya is Abu ‘Abd Allah al-Nu‘mani, in the book which he compiled on the 
occultation (ghayba). There is no need for us, in view of what we have 
mentioned, to present them in detail in this place. 


AN ACCOUNT OF THOSE WHO SAW THE TWELFTH IMAM, PEACE BE ON HIM, AN 
EXTRACT FROM THE EVIDENCE AND PROOF FOR HIM. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Isma‘Tl b. Musa b. Ja‘far - he was the oldest leader (shaykh) of the family of 
Muhammad in Iraq - who said]'” 

I (Muhammad b. Isma‘il b. Musa) saw the son of al-Hasan b. ‘Ali b. Muhammad 
(al-‘Askart), peace be on them, between the two mosques (i.e between Mecca 
and Medina). He was a youth. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya, on the authority of al-Hasan 
b. Rizq Allah, who said: Misa b Muhammad b. al-Qasim b. Hamza b. Misa b. 
Ja‘far told me: Hakima, daughter of Muhammad b. ‘Ali (al-Jawad), peace be on 
them, and aunt of al-Hasan (al-‘ Askari), peace be on him, told me:]'* 

She (Hakima) saw the one who will undertake the office of the Imamate for the 
rest of time (a/-ga’im) on the night of his birth and later. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority of Hamdan 
al-Qalanist who said:]" 

I (i.e. Hamdan al-QalanisI) asked Abt ‘Amr al-‘Umari, may Allah have mercy 
on him: “Has Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askari), peace be on him, died?” 
“He has died,” he answered, “but he has left a successor among you, one whose 
neck is like this.” He indicated (his own neck) with his hand (i.e. the successor 
is already mature). 


[Abd al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 


12 Al-KGfi, 1, 330, tradition no. 2. 
13 Al-KGfi, I, 330-1, tradition no. 3. 
14 Al-Kafi, I, 331, trraditlon no. 4. 


499 


b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of Fath, the 
retainer (mawild) of al-Zurari, who said:]'° 

I (i.e. Fath) heard Abu ‘Ali b. Mutahhar mention that he had seen him and he 
described his stature. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Al1 b. Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Shadhan b. Nu‘aym, on the authority of the maid-servant of Ibrahim b. ‘Abida 
al-Nisabiri - she was one of the righteous women - who said:]!° 

I (.e. the maidservant of Ibrahim b. ‘Abida ) was standing with Ibrahim on al- 
Safa (in Mecca) and the one who possesses authority, peace be on him, came and 
stood over Ibrahim. He took hold of his book of rituals for the pilgrimage and 
told him about some things. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Ali7 b. Muhammad, on the authority of Muhammad 
‘Alt b. Ibrahim, on the authority of Abii ‘Abd Allah b. Salih:]!” 

He (i.e. Abi ‘Abd Allah b. Salih) saw him opposite the (Black) stone (of the 
Ka‘ba) and the people were struggling with one another to get to it. He said: 
“They were not ordered to do this.” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qub, on the authority of ‘Ali b. Muhammad, on the authority of Ahmad b. 
Ibrahim b. Idris, on the authority of his father (Ibrahim b. Idris), who said:]!® 

I (.e. Ibrahtm b. Idris) saw him, peace be on him, after the death of Abt 
Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askar1), peace be on him, when he had grown up. I 
kissed his hand and his head. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qtb, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority of Abt ‘Abd 
Allah b. Salih and Ahmad b. al-Nadr, on the authority of al-Qanbari, who said:]!° 
A discussion took place about Ja‘far b. ‘Ali (the brother of al-Hasan al-‘ Askari). 
He (an unidentified person) blamed him (i.e. Ja‘far) (for claimmg the Imamate). 
I (i.e. al-Qanbart) said: “There is not anyone else except him.” 

“Yes, there is,” he asserted. 

“Who.” I asked. “And have you see him?” 

“T have not seen him,” he replied, “but someone else has.” 

15 Al-KGfi, 1, 331, tradition no. 5. 

16 Al-KGfi, 1, 331, tradition no. 6. 

17 Al-KGfi, 1, 331, tradition no. 7. Al-Mufid’s isnad has been corrected. 

18 Al-KGfi, 1, 331, tradition no. 8. 

19 Al-KGfi, I, 331, tradition no. 9. 


500 


“Who is that?” I asked. 
“Ja‘far has seen him twice,” he declared. 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of ‘Alt b. 
Muhammad, on the authority of Ja‘far b. Muhammad al-Kufi, on the authority 
of Ja‘far b. Muhammad al-Makfuf, on the authority of ‘Amr al-Ahwazi, who 
said:]?° 

Abit Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘ Askari), peace be on him, showed me his son and 
said: “This is your leader (after me).” 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad informed me on the authority of Muhammad 
b. Ya‘qiib, on the authority of Muhammad b. Yahya, on the authority of al-Hasan 
b. ‘Ali al-Nisabiiri, on the authority of Ibrahim b. Muhammad, on the authority 
of Abi Nasr Zarif al-Khadim:]*! 


He (i.e. Abt Nasr Zarif al-Khadim) saw him. 
2k ok 2 2k ok 


Such reports with the meaning which we have mentioned are numerous. The 
selection which we have given is sufficient for our purpose, since the support 
of his existence has already been presented by us and what would follow would 
be merely additional confirmation. If we do not present it, it is not without 
explanation. 


EXTRACT FROM THE EVIDENCE, PROOF AND SIGNS FOR THE LEADER FOR THE 
(REsT OF) TIME 


[Abi al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad b. Qilawayh informed me on the authority 
of Muhammad b. Ya‘qib, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the 
authority of Muhammad b. Hamawayh, on the authority of Muhammad b. 
Ibrahim b. Mahziyar, who said:]” 

I G.e. Muhammad b. Ibrahim b. Mahziya) doubted (if there was a successor) at 
the death of Abi Muhammad al-Hasan b. ‘Ali (al-‘Askar1) peace be on them. A 
great deal of money (for the Imam) had been gathered with my father. He took it 
and went by boat. I went with him to say farewell to him. He became seriously 
weakened by a fever. He said: “My son, take me back, it is death.” 

Then he said: “Fear Allah with regard to this money,” and he entrusted it to my 
(safe-keeping). 


20 Al-Kafi, 1, 332, tradition no. 12. This tradition has been repeated by both al-Mufid and 
al-Kulayni. 

21 AL-KGfi, I, 332, tradition no. 13. 

22 Al-K@fi, I, 518, tradition no. 5. 


501 


Three days later he died. I said to myself. “It is not possible for my father to 
entrust me with something for safe-keeping which is not true. I will take this 
money to Iraq. I will hire a house on the (river) bank and I won’t tell anyone 
anything. If something becomes clear to me like it was clear at the time of Abu 
Muhammad (al-Hasan b. ‘Ali (al-‘Askari), peace be on him, I will hand it over. 
If not, I will spend it on enjoying myself and entertainmg myself.” 


I went to Iraq and hired a house on the river-bank. I remained there for several 
days. Then suddenly a letter (was brought) by a messenger: “Muhammad, you 
have such-and-such........... 
(It went on) to describe everything I had, even what I was not aware of, being 
included in it. I handed it over to the messenger. I remained for some days 
without a head being raised to me (in greeting) and I was grieved. Then (a 
message) came to me: “We have put you in the position of your father. So praise 
Allah.” 


[Muhammad b. Abi ‘Abd Allah reported on the authority of Aba ‘Abd Allah al- 
Nisa’: |” 

I Ge. Abi ‘Abd Allah) gave some things to al-Marzubant al-Harithi, among 
which was a bracelet of gold. They were accepted. However, the bracelet was 
returned to me and I was told to break it. I broke it. There in the middle of it were 
weights of iron, copper and brass. I took that away and handed over the gold after 
that. It was accepted. 


[‘Ali b. Muhammad reported:]*4 

A man from the Sawad (of Iraq) handed over money and it was returned to 
him. He was told: “Take from it what is due to your nephews. It is four hundred 
dirhams.” 


The man had possession of an estate in which his nephews had a share which 
he had withheld from them. He reflected. When he took out the four hundred 
dirhams which belonged to his nephews and handed over the rest, it was 
accepted. 


[Al-Qasim b. al-‘Ala’ reported: ]*> 

A number of sons were born to me. I used to write to (the Hidden Imam) and ask 
for prayers for them. However, he never wrote to me anything about their affair 
and they all died. When my son al-Husayn was born, I wrote to ask for prayers. 


23 Al-K@fi, I, 518, tradition no. 6. Al-Mufid’s isnad has been corrected. 


24 Al-Ka@fi, I, 519, tradition no. 8. 
25 Al-KGfi, I, 519, tradition no. 9. 


502 


I received an answer and he survived. Praise be to Allah. 


[‘Ali b. Muhammad (reported) on the authority of Abu ‘Abd Allah b. Salih, who 
said:]?° 

One year I (i.e. Abi ‘Abd Allah b. Salih) went to Baghdad. (At first) I had asked 
permission to go but it had not been granted to me. So I remained for twenty-two 
days after the departure of the caravan towards al-Nahrawan. Then I received 
permission to depart on the Wednesday. I was told to go with it. I set out in 
despair at catching it up. I reached al-Nahrawan and the caravan was still there. 
I only had time to feed my camel before the caravan set out and I set out with it. 
He (the Hidden Imam) had prayed for my safety. Therefore I came to no harm. 
Praise be to Allah. 


[‘Alt b. Ibrahtm (reponed) on the authority of Nadr b. Sabbah al-Bajalt, on the 
authority of Muhammad b. Yusuf al-Shashi, who said:]?’ 

Tumours came out on my boltom. I showed them to the doctors and spent a great 
deal of money to do that. They said that they did not know of any medicine to 
cure them. I wrote a letter (to the Hidden Imam) to ask him to pray (for me). He 
sent me a signed letter: “May Allah clothe you in health. May He make you with 
us both in this world and the next.” 


Before Friday came, I was well again and the place where there had been tumours 
became as smooth as the palm of my hand. I summoned a doctor (who was 
one) of our colleagues and showed him that. He said: “We do not know of any 
medicine for that. Health could only have been restored through Allah directly.” 


[‘Ali b. Muhammad (reported) on the authority of ‘Alt b. al-Husayn al- Yamani, 
who said: ]?8 

While I (i.e. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn al-Yamant) was in Baghdad, a caravan of Yamanis 
was being prepared for departure. I wanted to go with them. I wrote to ask 
permission for that and (the message) came: “Do not go with them. No good will 
come to you through going with them. Stay in Kufa.” 

I stayed there and the caravan departed. The Bant Hanzala attacked them and 
destroyed them. 


I wrote to ask permission to make a journey by water and was not given 
permission. I asked about the boats which were leaving that year by sea but I 
knew that no boat was safe, for a group of people called al-Bawarih used to 
attack them and stop them. 

26 Al-Kafi, I, 519, tradition no. 10. 


27 Al-Ka@fi, I, 519, tradhion no. 11. 
28 Al-KGfi, I, 519-20, tradition no. 12. 


503 


[‘Alt b. al-Husayn reported: ] 

I (i.e. ‘Alt b. al-Husayn) went to al-‘Askar (Samarra’). I came in by a by-street at 
dusk. I had spoken to no one and I was not known to anyone. I was praying in the 
mosque after I had finished my visitation (to the graves of the two Imams al-Hadi 
and al-‘Askart), when a servant came to me. He said to me. “Arise.” 

“To where?” I asked. 

“To the house,” he answered. 

“Who am I?” I said. “Perhaps you have been sent to someone else.” 

“No, I have only been sent to you,” he said. “You are ‘Alt b. al-Husayn (the 
messenger of Ja‘far b. Ibrahim”. 


He went with me until he installed me in the house of al-Husayn b. Ahmad).” 
I did not know what he said to him until he brought everything I needed. I 
remained there for three days. Then I asked permission to make a visitation 
inside the house (where the two Imams were buried). Permission was granted 
and I made my visitation at night. 


[Al-Hasan b. al-Fadl (b. Zayd al- Yaman1) reported:]°° 

My father (i.e. al-Fadl b. Zayd ) wrote a letter in his own handwriting. The 
reply from the (Hidden Imam) came. (Then I, Al-Hasan b. al-Fad1 - wrote in my 
handwriting, the reply from the Hidden Imam came). Then one of the 
outstanding scholars among our colleagues wrote in his handwriting and no 
answer came back. We reflected on that. Indeed the man had changed and 
become a Qarmati. 


[Al-Hasan b. al-Fadl mentioned: ] 

I (i.e. Al-Hasan b. al-Fadl) went to Iraq (and I went to Tus). I knew that I would 
only leave with clear evidence (of an improvement) in my situation and success 
in my needs even though I might have to stay there untill I had to beg for alms. 
During that time, my heart became oppressed with my stay and I began to fear 
that I would miss the pilgrimage. One day I went to Muhlammad b. Ahmad - he 
was the representative of the Hidden Imam (safir) at that time - so that I might 
get money from him. He said to me: “Go to such-and-such a mosque. There a 
man will meet you.” 


I went there. A man came up to me. When he looked at me, he laughed and said: 
“Don’t be worried. You will make the pilgrimage, this year and you will return 
safely to your family and children.” 


29 What is between brackets is from A/-K@fi; 
30 Al-Kafi, 1, 520, tradition no. 13. What is between brackets is from A/-K4Gft. 


504 


I was relieved and my heart quietened. I said: “This is the real proof of that man.” 


Then I went to al-‘Askar (Samarra’). A bag was sent to me, in which were some 
dinars and some clothes. I was perplexed and said to myself: “Is my reward only 
that in the eyes of the people (i.e. the Shi‘a leaders)?” 


I pretended ignorance and sent it back. Then I regretted my action very much. I 
said to myself: “I have been guilty of unbelief in sending it back to my master.” 


I wrote a letter apologising for my action, acknowledging my sin and seeking 
forgiveness for it. Then I sent it. I performed the noon prayer. At that time I was 
thinking to myself and saying: “If the dinars were returned to me, I would not 
untie the knot (of the purse). I would not do anything with it until I had taken it 
to my father. He knows better than I.” 


The messenger, who had brought the purse to me, came to me again. He said 
to me: “I would throttle you since you do not acknowledge the man (i.e. the 
Hidden Imam). Sometimes we do that to our followers who have deserted in 
the first place. Sometimes they ask us to do it to gain relief through it. However, 
(a message) has come to me that you made a mistake in sending back our 
beneficence. If you seek the forgiveness of Allah, then Allah, the Exalted will 
forgive you. However, if it is your resolve and your firm intention not to do 
anything with what we brought to you and not to spend it on your journey, we 
will deprive you of it. As for the clothes, take them in order to use as the robes 
for consecration in the pilgrimage (tuhrim fihi.).” 


[Al-Hasan b. al-Fadl reported: ] 

I (i.e. al-Hasan b. al-Fad1) wrote about two problems and wanted to write about a 
third. However, I stopped myself fearing that that might not be liked. The answer 
came explaining the two problems and the third which I had kept back. Praise 
be to Allah. 


[Al-Hasan b. al-Fadl reported: ] 

I (.e. al-Hasan b. al-Fadl) agreed with Ja‘far b. Ibrahim al-Nisaburt in Nisabiir 
to ride with him to the pilgrimage and give him companionship. When I reached 
Baghdad, I changed my mind. So I went to look for a partner. Ibn Wajna’ met 
me. (Earlier) I had gone to him and asked him to hire someone for me. However, 
he had been unwilling. Now he said: “I have been looking for you, for I was told 
(i.e. by an instruction from the Hidden Imam) that he (i.e. al-Hasan) will be your 
colleague (within the caravan) so be kind to him and find a partner for him and 
hire him for him.” 


505 


[‘Ali b. Muhammad (reported) on the authority of al-Hasan b. ‘Abd al-Hamid, 
who said: ]?! 

I (i.e. al-Hasan b. ‘Abd al-Hamid) doubted about the authority of Hajiz. I col- 
lected some (dues for the Hidden Imam) and went to al-‘Askar. (A message) 
came to me: “There should be no doubt about us nor about those who act on our 
behalf with our authority. Return what you have to Hajiz b. Yazid.” 


[‘Ali b. Muhammad (reported) on the authority of Muhammad b. Salih, who 
said: ]*? 

When my father died and his authority came to me (i.e. Muhammad b. Salih), 
my father had been holding bills of exchange (which had been given) by people 
(instead of money) as part of the money owed to the creditor - i.e. the leader of 
the affair (sahib al-amr), peace be on him. 


Al-Shaykh al-Mufid, may Allah have mercy on him, explained: This expression 
(al-gharim - the creditor) is a symbol which the Shi‘a had known for a long 
time among themselves. Their addressing him by it was a form of precautionary 
dissimulation (tagiyya). 


I (i.e. Muhammad b. Salih) wrote to him (the Hidden Imam) to inform me (about 
what to do). He wrote to me: “Seek them out and get them to pay.” 


The people paid me except for one man. He owed (the redemption of) a bill of 
exchange for four hundred dinars. I went to him to ask for it. He put off paying 
me and his son made light of me and ridiculed me. I complained about him to his 
father. His father said: “What was that?” 


I grabbed hold of his beard and took hold of his leg and dragged him to the 
middle of the house. His son went out to get help from the people of Baghdad. 
He was shoulmg: “A Qummi, a Rafidite, has killed my father.” 


A large crowd of them gathered against me. I got on my horse and shouted: “Well 
done, people of Baghdad, siding with a wrong-doer against a wronged stranger. 
I am a man from the people of Hamdan from the people of the sunna (i.e. 
non-Shi‘a). This man makes claims of me being from the people of Qumm and 
accuses me of being a Rafidite so that he may take away my rights and my 
money,” 


They began to turn against him and they wanted to go into his shop until I 


31 Al-Kafi, 1, 521, tradition no. 14. 
32 Al-Kafi, 1, 521-2, tradition no. 15. 


506 


quietened them. The man whose bill of exchange it was came to me and swore by 
the oath of divorce that he would pay me my money (to redeem the bill) so that 
I would take them away from him. 


[‘Alt b. Muhammad (reported) on the authority of a number of our colleagues on 
the authority of Ahmad b. al-Hasan and al-‘Ala’ b. Rizq Allah, on the authority of 
Badr, the servant of Ahmad b. al-Hasan, on the authority of the latter:]** 

I (i.e. Ahmad b. al-Hasan) came to al-Jabal. I did not yet profess (the doctrine 
of) the Imamate, nor did I have any love for them (the Shi‘a) at all until Yazid b. 
‘Abd Allah died. In his illness, he made (me a trustee of) his will that his horse, 
his sword and his belt should be given to his Master (i e. the Imam). I was afraid 
that if I did not give the horse to Udhkutkin, he would punish me. I valued the 
horse, sword and belt in my own view for seven hundred dinars and I told no one 
about it. I gave the horse to Udhkttkin. Suddenly there was a letter which came 
to me from Iraq: “Send seven hundred dinars, of the price of the horse, sword and 
belt which were ours before you.” 


[‘Ali b. Muhammad reported: One of our colleagues told me:]** 
A son was born to me (i.e. one of the Shi‘a). 


I wrote to ask permission to have him circumcised on the seventh day. (The 
answer) came: “Do not do that.” 


The child died on the seventh or eighth day. I wrote about his death. The answer 
came: “He will be followed by another and another. Name the first Ahmad and 
the one after Ahmad, Ja‘far.” 

It happened just as he said. 


[One of our colleagues reported: ] 

I (i.e. one of the Shi‘a) had got ready for the pilgrimage. I said farewell to the 
people and wrote to depart. (The answer) came “We are averse to that but the 
decision is yours.” 


My heart was heavy and I was grieved. I wrote “I remain as one who listens and 
obeys. However, I am grieved at staying behind from the pilgrimage” 


There came a signed message: “Let your heart not be heavy. You will make the 
pilgrimage next year. Allah willing.” 


33 Al-Kafi, 1, 522, tradition no. 16. 
34 Al-Kafi, 1, 522-3, tradition no. 17. 


507 


Next year I wrote to ask permssion. Permission came. I wrote (to ask) if I could 
take Muhammad b. al-‘Abbas as a companion as I trusted in his religious faith 
and self-restraint. (The answer) came: “The man of the tribe of Asad would be 
the better companion. If he comes, do not hire (Muhammad b. al-‘Abbas).” 


The man of Asad came and | took him as a companion. 


[Abu al-Qasim Ja‘far b. Muhammad reported to me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ya‘qib, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, on the authority 
of al-Hasan b. ‘Isa al-‘Uraydi, who said:]*° 

When Abt Muhammad al-Hasan b. ‘Alt (al-‘Askar1), peace be on them, died, 
a man from the people of Egypt brought money to Mecca for the leader of the 
affair (sahib al-amr), peace be on him. I (i.e. al-Hasan b. ‘Isa al-‘Uraydt) used 
to visit him. He said: “Some of the people (say) that Abt Muhammad (al-Hasan 
al-‘Askarl), peace be on him, died without a successor. Others say that the 
successor after him is Ja‘far. Others say that the successor after him is his son. 
Aman with the kunya Abt Talib was sent to al-‘Askar (Samarra’) to study the 
matter and (find out) the truth about it. He had a letter with him. The man went to 
Ja‘far and asked him for proof (ofhis Imamate). He answered: ‘It is not yet ready 
for me.’ The man went to the door and he sent the letter to our colleagues who 
are charged with direct representation of the Hidden Imam (sifara). The message 
came to him: ‘May Allah reward you through your leader.’ Then the man 
died and he entrusted the money which was with him to do with what he was 
intending (i.e. pay it to the agents of the Hidden Imam). His letter had been 
answered and the matter was as he had been told.” 


[ With the same chain of authorities (isn@d) on the authority or ‘Al1b. Muhammad, 
who said:]*° 

A man from the people of Aba brought some things to hand over to him (the 
Hidden Imam). He forgot his sword which he had also intended to give. When 
the things arrived, he was informed by letter of their arrrival. In the letter it also 
said: “What is the news of the sword which you forgot?” 


[ With the same chain of authorities (isn@d) on the authority of ‘Al1b. Muhammad, 
on the authority of Muhammad b. Shadhan al-Nisabiri, who said:]?’ 

I (i.e. Muhammad b. Shadhan) had collected five hundred dirhams less twenty. I 
did not want to send them while they were less (than five hundred). so I paid out 
twenty dirhams of my own and sent them to al-Asadi. I did not write about what 


35 Al-Kafi, 1, 523, tradition no. 19. 


36 Al-Kafi, 1, 523, tradition no. 20. 
37 Al-Kafi, 1, 523-4, tradition no. 23. 


508 


was my own (money) in (the sum). The reply came: “ Five hundred dirhams have 
arrived, of which twenty belongs to you.” 


[al-Hasan b. Muhammad al-Ash‘ari reported:]** 

A letter from Abii Muhammad (al-Hasan al-‘Askari), peace be on him, came 
about entrusting a salary to al-Junayd, who assassinated Faris b. Hatim b. 
Mahawayh, to Abu al-Hasan and my brother. After Abi Muhammad (al-Hasan 
al-‘ Askari), peace be on him, died, a message came, renewing the salary of Abu 
al-Hasan and his companion. Nothing came with regard to the affairs of al- 
Junayd. I was troubled at that but then (another message) came later announcmg 
the death of al-Junayd. 


[‘Alt b. Muhammad (reported) on the authority of Abii ‘Aqil ‘Isa b. Nasr, who 
said: ]? 

‘Alt b. Ziyad al-Simari wrote asking for a shroud. (The reply) was written to 
him: “You will need it in the year (2)80 A.H.” 


He died in the year (2)80 A.H. and the shroud was sent to him before his death. 


[‘Ali b. Muhammad (reported) on the authonty of Muhammad b. Hari b. ‘Imran 
al-Hamdani, who said]*° 

I G.e. Muhammad b. Hariin) owed five hundred dinars to (the Hidden Imam). I 
did not have enough money to pay it. Then IJ said to myself: “I have several shops 
which I had bought for five hundred and thirty dinars I could give them (to the 
Hidden Imam) instead of the five hundred dinars.” 


However, I did not say anythjng about them. (A message) was written to 
Muhammad b. Ja‘far: “Take the shops from Muhammad b. Hariin for the five 
hundred dinars which be owes us.” 


[Aba al-Qasim (Ja‘far b. Muhammad) informed me on the authority of 
Muhammad b. Ya‘qib, on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad, who said:]"! 

An announcement was issued: “It is prohibited to make visitations to the 
cemetery of Quraysh and Karbala’ (al-Ha’ir).” 


Some months later the vizier summoned al-Baqtant. He said to him: “Go to (the 
families of) the Bant Furat and the people of al-Burs and tell them not to visit the 


38 Al-Kaft, 1, 524, tradition no. 24. 
39 Al-Kaft, 1, 524, tradition no. 27. 
40 Al-K@fi, I, 524, tradition no. 28. 
41 Al-K@fi, 1, 525, tradItion no. 31. 


509 


cemetery of Quraysh. The caliph has ordered that everyone who visits it should 


be searched out and arrested.” 
ok ok ok ok ok 


THE SIGNS OF THE REAPPEARANCE (Q/Y4M) OF THE (IMAM) WHO 
UNDERTAKES THE OFFICE (41-Q4’IM), PEACE BE ON HIM, THE PERIOD OF 
TIME OF HIS APPEARANCE, AN EXPLANATION OF HIS LIFE AND AN EXTRACT 
OF WHAT IS REVEALED ABOUT HIS STATE. 


Traditions have been reported mentioning the signs for the time of the 
appearance of the Imam who will arise (¢a’im), peace be on him, and the events 
which will take place before his appearance, together with the indications and 
features of it. Among them are: The Sufyani will come out in revolt; the Hasanid 
will be killed; the ‘Abbasids will dispute over worldly kingdom; there will be 
an eclipse of the sun in the middle of the month of Ramadan; there will be an 
eclipse of the moon at the end of that month in contrast to ordinary happenings; 
the land will be swallowed up at al-Bayda’; it will be swallowed in the east - it 
will be swallowed up in the west; the sun will stay still from the time of its 
decline to the middle of the time for the afternoon prayer; it will rise from the 
west; a pure soul (nafs zakiyya) will be killed in the outskirts of Kafa with 
seventy righteous men; a Hashimite will be slaughtered between the corner (of 
the Ka‘ba and the station of Abraham); the wall of the mosque of Kufa will be 
destroyed; black standards will advance from Khurasan; al-Yamant will come 
out in revolt; al-Maghribi will appear in Egypt and take possession of it from 
Syria; the Turk will occupy the region of al-Jazira; the Byzantines will occupy 
Ramla; the star will appear in the east giving light just like the moon gives light; 
then (the new moon) will bend until its two tips almost meet; a colour will appear 
in the sky and spread to its horizons; a fire will appear for a long time in the east 
remaining in the air for three or seven days; the Arabs will throw off the reins and 
take possession of their land, throwing out the foreign authority; the people of 
Egypt will kill their ruler and destroy Syria; and three standards will dispute over 
it (Syria); the standards of Qays and the Arabs will come among the people of 
Egypt; the standards of Kinda (will go) to Khurasan; horses will come from the 
west until they are stabled in al-Hira; the black standards will advance towards 
them from the east; the Euphrates will flood so that the water comes into the 
alleys of Kufa; sixty liars will come forward, all of them claiming prophethood, 
and twelve will come forward from the family of Abu Talib, all of them 
claiming the Imamate; a man of important rank of the supporters of the 
‘Abbasids will be burnt between Jalula’ and Khaniqin; the bridge next to Karkh 
in the city of Baghdad will be established; a black wind will raise it at the 
beginning of the day and then an earthquake will occur so that much of it 


510 


will be swallowed up; fear will cover the people of Iraq and Baghdad; swift 
death (will occur) there and there will be a loss of property, lives and harvests; 
locusts will appear at their usual times and at times not usual so that they attack 
agricultural land and crops and there will be little harvest for what the people 
planted; two kinds of foreigners will dispute and much blood will be shed in 
their quarrel; slaves will rebel against obedience to their masters and kill their 
masters (mawaii); a group of heretics (ahl/ al-bida‘) will be transformed until 
they become monkeys and pigs; slaves will conquer the land of their masters; 
a cry (will come) from the sky (in such a way) that all the people will hear it in 
their own languages; a face and a chest will appear in the sky before the people 
in the centre of the sun; the dead will arise from their graves so that they will 
return to the world and they will recognize one another and visit one another; 
that will come to an end with twenty-four continous rainstorms and the land will 
be revived by them after being dead and it will recognize its blessings; after that 
every disease will be taken away from those of the Shi‘a of the Mahdi, peace be 
on him, who believe in the truth; at that time they will know of his appearance in 
Mecca and they will go to him to support him. 


(These signs) are as the reports have mentioned. Among the total of these events 
are some which are bound (to happen) and other which are conditional. Allah 
knows best what will take place. We have only mentioned them on the basis of 
what is recounted in basic sources of tradition (usii/) because of their inclusion 
in traditions which have been handed down. From Allah we seek help and Him 
do we ask for success. 


[Abu al-Hasan ‘Alt b. Bilal al-Muhallabi informed me: Muhammad b. Ja‘far 
al-Mu’addib told me on the authority of Ahmad b. Idris, on the authority of 
‘Alt b. Muhammad b. Qutayba, on the authority of al-Fadl b. Shadhan, on the 
authority of Isma‘il b. al-Sabbah, who said: I heard an old man among our 
colleagues mention on the authority of Sayfb. ‘Umayra, who said:] 

I (i.e. Sayf b. ‘Umayra) was with Abu Ja‘far al-Mansiir and he said to me of his 
own accord: “There will certainly be a voice calling from the sky the name of a 
man from the descendants of Abi Talib.” 


“May I be your ransom, Commander of the faithful,” I said, “do you relate that?” 
“Indeed, by Him in Whose hands is my life,” he replied, “because my own ears 
have heard it.” 


“Commander of the faithful,” I said, “this tradition which you have heard is 
before my time.” 


“Sayf, it is the truth,” he told me. “When it happens, we will be the first to answer 


511 


it. Indeed the call will be for a man from the descendants of our uncle.” 


“A man from the descendants of Fatima, peace be on her?” I asked. 

“Yes,” he replied. “Sayf, if it was not for the fact that I have heard from Abt 
Ja‘far Muhammad b. ‘Alt (al-Baqir), who told me about it, even though all 
the people of the earth have told me about it, I would not accept it from them. 
However it was Muhammad b. ‘Ali (al-Baqir), peace be on them, (who told 
me).” 


[Yahya b. Abi Talib reported on the authority of ‘Ali b. ‘Asim, on the authority 
of ‘Ata’ b. al-Sa’ib, on the authority of his father on the authority of ‘Abd Allah 
b. ‘Umar, who said:] 

The Apostle of Allah, may Allah bless Him and His Family, said: “The hour (of 
the end of the world) will not arise until the Mahdi from my descendants comes 
forth. The Mahdi will not come forth until sixty liars come forward, all of them 
declaring: ‘I am a prophet.’” 


[al-Fadl b. Shadhan reported on the authority of one who reported it on the 
authority of Abu Hamza al-Thumal1, who said:] 

I (i.e. Aba: Hamza al-Thumalt) asked Abi Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on him: “Ts 
the revolt of the Sufyani one of the things which must happen?” 


“Yes,” he replied. “The call is one of the things which must happen as is the 
rising of the sun from the west one of the things which must happen. The dispute 
of the ‘Abbasids over the state is also one of them and the killing of the pure soul 
(al-nafs al-zakiyya). The appearance of the one who will arise (al-qa’im) from 
the family of Muhammad, may Allah bless Him and His Family, is another of the 
things which must happen.” 


“How will the call be?” I asked. 

“There will be a call from the sky at the beginning of the day - indeed the truth 
is with ‘Ali and his Shr‘a,"” he said. “Then at the end of the day, Satan will call 
from the earth - indeed the truth is with ‘Uthman and his supporters. At that the 
false one will feel doubt.” 


[al-Hasan b. ‘Ali al-Washsha’ (reported) on the authority of Ahmad b. ‘A’idh, 
on the authority of Abi Khadija, on the authority of Abi ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al- 
Sadiq, peace be on him:] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “The one who will arise (al/-qga’im) will not come forth 
until twelve of the Bant Hashim come forth before him, all of them summoning 
men to themselves.” 


512 


[Muhammad b. Abi al-Bilad (reported) on the authority of ‘Alt b. Muhammad 
al-Azdi, on the authority of his father, on the authority of his grandfather, who 
said:] 

The Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him, said: “Before the one who will 
arise (al-qa’im), there will be red death and white death; there will be locusts at 
their usual time and at their unusual time like the colours of blood. As for red 
death that is (from) the sword,while white death is (from) plague.” 


[al-Hasan b. Mahbib (reported) on the authority of ‘Amr b. Abi Miqdam, on the 
authority of Jabir al-Ju‘fi on the authority of Abu Ja‘ far (al-Baqir), peace be on 
him:] 

(Al-Bagir) said: “Stay close to the ground. Don’t move an arm or a leg until you 
see the signs which I will mention to you - I don’t think that you will live until 
that time. The ‘Abbasids will dispute; a voice will call from the sky; one of the 
villages of Syria called al-Jabiyya will be swallowed up; the Turks will occupy 
the region of al-Jazira; the Byzantines will attack al-Ramla; at that time there 
will be much conflict throughout the land until Syria is destroyed. The cause of 
its destruction will be the meeting of three standards there: the standard of the 
Red, the standard of the Spotted and the standard of the Sufyant.” 


[‘Ali b. Abt Hamza (reported) on the authority of Abi al-Hasan Misa, peace be 
on him:] 

Concerning the words of Him, the Mighty and High: We will show them our 
signs on the horizons and in themselves so that it will become clear to them 
that it is the truth [XLI 53], (Musa) said: “(There will be) a disturbance on the 
horizons and the enemies of truth will be changed in form.” 


[Wahb b. (Abi) Hafs (reported) on the authority of Abi Basir, who said:] 

I Ge. Abt Basir) heard Abt Ja‘far (al-Baqir) speak concerning the words of 
Him, the Exalted: Jf We wish, We will send down on them signs from the sky, and 
their necks will remain bent submissively to them (XXVI 4). He said: “Allah will 
do that to them.” 


“Who are they?” I asked. 
“The Umayyads and their supporters,” he answered. 


“What is the sign?” I asked. 

“Between the decline of the sun (at noon) and the time of the afternoon prayer, 
the sun will remain still,” he said. “The chest and face of man will appear in the 
centre of the sun, who will be recognized by his standing and genealogy. That 
will occur in the time of the Sufyani. At that moment his destruction will occur 
and the destruction of his people.” 


513 


[‘Abd Allah b. Bukayr (reported) on the authority of ‘Abd al- Malik b. Isma‘Il, 
on the authority of his father, on the authority of Sa‘td b. Jubayr:] 

(Sa‘td b. Jubayr) said: “In the year in which the Mahdi will rise, twenty rain 
storms will rain on the earth. You will see their effects and benefits.” 


[al-Fad] b. Shadhan (reported) on the authority of Anmad b. Muhammad b. Abt 
Nasr , on the authority of Tha‘laba al-Azdi, who said:] 

Abt Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on him, said: “Two signs will come before the 
one who will arise (al-qa’im), peace be on him: there will be an eclipse of the 
sun in the middle of the month of Ramadan and an eclipse of the moon at the 
end of it.” 


“Son of the Apostle of Allah,” I said, “usually the eclipse of the sun occurs at the 
end of the month and the eclipse of the moon occurs in the middle of it?” 


“T know what I have said,” replied Abi Ja‘ far (al-Baqir), peace be on him. “They 
are signs which have not occurred since Adam came down.” 


[Tha‘laba b. Maymitn (reported) on the authority of Shu‘ayb al-Haddad, on the 
authority of Salih b. Maytham, who said:] 

I Ge. Salih b. Maytham) heard Abi Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on him, say: 
“There is no longer than fifteen nights between the appearance of the one who 
will rise (a/-qa’im), peace be on him, and the killing of the pure soul (al-nafs 
al-zakiyya).” 


[‘Amr b Shamir (reported) on the authority of Jabir (al-Ju‘f1) who said:] 
I (i.e. Jabir al-Ju‘fi) said to Abt Ja‘far (al-Bagir), peace be on him: “When will 
this event occur?” 


“Jabir, that will occur at a time when the killing between al-Hira and Kufa is 
considerable,” he replied. 


[Muhammad b. Sinan (reported) on the authority of al-Husayn b. al-Mukhtar, on 
the authority of Abi ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be on him:] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “When the wall of the mosque of Ktfa, which adjoins the 
house of ‘Abd Allah b. Mas‘td is destroyed, then at that time the ruler of the 
people will disappear. At his disappearance, the one who will rise (al-qa’im), 
peace be on him, will come forth.” 


[Sayf b. ‘Umayra (reported) on the authority of Bakr b. Muhammad, on the 
authority of Abi ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be on him:] 


514 


(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “There will be three appearances in one year, one month 
and one day - the Sufyani, the Khurasant and the Yamani. The standard of 
guidance will not be among them, except the standard of the Yamant, because he 
will summon (people) to the truth.” 


[al-Fad] b. Shadhan (reported) on the authority of Ahmad b. Muhammad b. Abt 
Nasr, on the authority of Abt al-Hasan al-Rida, peace be on him:] 

(AI-Rida) said: “What you stretch your necks for will not occur until you are able 
to discern and to be tested. Only a few of you will remain.” 


Then he recited: Alif Lam. Do the people consider that they can abandon 
saying “We believe” whenever they are tempted? [XXIX 1-2]. He said: “Among 
the signs of the relief is an event which will occur between the two mosques 
(of Mecca and Medina). So-and-so from the descendants of so-and-so will kill 
fifteen leaders of the Arabs.” 


[Al-Fad1 b. Shadhan (reported) on the authority of Mu‘ammar b. Khallad, on the 
authority of Abi al-Hasan (al-Rida), peace be on him:] 

(Al-Rida) said: “(It is as if I see) standards, dyed green, coming from Egypt until 
they come to the Syrian (standards). Then they will be guided to the descendant 
of the one who gave the testamentary bequests of authority (to the Imams).” 


[Hammad b. ‘Isa (reported) on the authority of Ibrahim b. ‘Umar al-Yamani on 
the authority of Abt Basir, on the authority of Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja ‘far al-Sadiq), 
peace be on him:] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “The kingdom of these men will not disappear until they 
slaughter people in Kufa on Friday. It is as if I was looking at heads falling 
between the Gate of al-Fil and (the place of) the soap-sellers.” 


[‘Alt b. Asbat (reported) on the authority of (Abia) al-Hasan b. al- Jahm, who 
said:] 

A man asked Abt al-Hasan (Musa), peace be on him, about the relief. He asked: 
“Do you want most of it or shall I give you a summary?” 


“Would you give me a summary?” he said. 


“(It will be) when the standards of Qays are carried in Egypt and the standards of 
Kinda in Khurasan,” he replied. 


[Al-Husayn b. Abr ‘Ala’ (reported) on the authority of Abt Basir, on the 
authority of Abi ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be on him:] 


515 


(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “Because of the sons of so-and-so there will be a battle at 
your mosque - meaning the mosque of Kufa. On one Friday four thousand will 
be killed between the Gate of al-Fil to (the place of) the soap-sellers. Beware of 
this street. Avoid it. Those who are in the best situation will take the street of the 
Ansar.” 


[‘Ali b. Abt Hamza (reported) on the authority of Abi Basir, on the authority of 
Abi ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be on him:] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “Before (the coming of) the one who will rise (a/l-qa’im), 
peace be on him, there will be a year of abundant rain in which the fruits and the 
dates on the palms will be destroyed. But don’t complain of that.” 


[Ibrahim b. Muhammad (reported) on the authority of Ja‘far b. Sa‘d, on the 
authority of his father, on the authority of Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), 
peace be on him:] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “In the year of the Conquest (by the Mahdz) the Euphrates 
will flood so that the water goes into the alleys of Kufa.” 


[It is reported in the account (hadith) of Muhammad b. Muslim, who said:] 

I G.e. Muhammad b. Muslim) heard Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be 
on him, say: “Before (the coming) of the one who will rise (a/-qa’im) there will 
be a trial from Allah.” 


“May I be your ransom, what is that?” I asked him. 

He recited: Let Us test you with fear, with hunger, and with lack of money, of lives 
and of harvests. Good news will come to those who are steadfast [II 155]. Then 
he said: “The fear will be from the kings of the Bani so-and-so; the hunger will 
be as a result of exorbitant prices; the lack of money will be due to the failure of 
trade and the scarcity of surplus (goods) in it; the lack of lives will be because of 
swift death; the lack of harvest will be due to the great rains and the little benefit 
they bring to the crops.” Then he continued: “The good news for those who are 
steadfast is that the one who will rise (a/-qa@ im) will soon come forth.” 


[Al-Husayn b. Sa‘id (reported) on the authority of Mundhir al-Jawzi, on the 
authority of Abu ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be on him:] 

(Mundhir al-Jawzi) said: I heard (Ja‘far al-Sadiq) say: “Before the coming of 
the one who will rise (al-qa@ im), peace be on him, the people will be chided for 
their acts of disobedience by a fire which will appear in the sky and a redness 
which will cover the sky. It will swallow up Baghdad, it will swallow up Kufa. 
There blood will be shed and houses destroyed. Death (fana’) will occur amid 
their people and a fear will come over the people of Iraq from which they shall 
have no rest.” 


516 


THE YEAR IN WHICH THE Q4’/M WILL ARISE. 


As for the exact year and day on which the one who will rise (al-ga’im), peace 
be on him and his fathers, rises, there have been handed down reports concerning 
that on the authority of truthful men. 

[Al-Hasan b. Mahbib reported on the authority of ‘Ali b. Abi Hama, on the 
authonty of Abi Basir, on the authority of Abu ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), 
peace be on him:] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “The one who will rise (a/-qa im) will not come forth in 
an odd year: one, three, five seven or nine.” 


[al-Fad] b. Shadhann (reported) on the authority of Muhammad b. ‘Ali al-Kufi, 
on the authority of Wahb b. Hafs, on the authority of Abu Basir, who said:] 

Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be on him, said: “(A voice) will summon 
the one who will rise (a/-qa’im) on the night of the twenty-third of the month and 
he will rise on the day of ‘Ashiira’, the day on which al-Husayn b. ‘Ali, peace 
be on them, was killed. It is as if I could see him on Saturday, 10th of the month 
of al-Muharram, standing between the corner (of the Ka‘ba) and the station (of 
Abraham) and Gabriel, peace be on him, on his right will call for the pledge 
of allegiance to Allah. His Shi‘a will come to him from the ends of the earth, 
rolling up in great numbers to pledge allegiance to him. Then Allah will fill the 
earth with justice just as it was filled with injustice”. 


THE DIRECTION FROM WHICH THE Q4’7M WILL COME. 


The report has come that he, peace be on him and his fathers, will go from Mecca 
until he comes to Kufa. He will stay on its sand-dunes and scatter the soldiers 
into the cities. 


[Al-Hajjal has reported on the authority of Tha‘laba, on the authority of Abi 
Bakr al-Hadrami, on the authority of Abu Ja‘far (al-Bagir), peace be on him:] 

(al-Baqir said:) “It is as if (I could see) the one who will rise (a/l-qa im), peace 
be on him, on the sand dunes of Kiifa. He came there from Mecca with five 
thousand angels. Gabriel was on his right and Michael on his left. The believers 
were (standing) in front of him and he was scattering the soldiers into the land.” 


[It is reported on the narration (riwaya) of ‘Amr b. Shamir, on the authority Abu 
Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on him:] 

al-Baqir mentioned the Mahdi and said: “He will enter Kufa and there there will 
be three standards which will have become confused. They will be clear to him. 
He will go in until he comes to the pulpit. Then he will preach but the people 


517 


will not know what he says because of the weeping. On the second Friday the 
people Will ask him to pray the Friday prayer with them. He will order that a 
place of prostration be marked for him with red dye and he will pray there with 
them. Then he will order that a river should be dug from the back of the shrine 
of al-Husayn, peace be on him, which would flow to the Ghariyyayn so that the 
water would descend into al-Najaf. At its entrance bridges and mills would be 
working. It is as if I (could see) an old woman, on her head a basket, in which is 
wheat which is brought to those mills and they grind it without charging.” 


[In the narration of Salih b. Abt al-Aswad of Abi ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), 
peace be on him:] 

(Salih b. Abi al-Aswad) said that (Ja‘far al-Sadiq) mentioned the mosque of al- 
Sahla. He described it as being of our leader (sahib) when he came with his 
people. 


[In the narration of al-Mufaddal b. ‘Umar: the latter said:] 

I (i.e. al-Mufaddal b. ‘Umar) heard Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be 
on him, say “When the one who will rise (ga@’im) from the family or Muhammad, 
peace be on him, rises, he will build a mosque in the outskirts of Kufa, which 
will have a thousand doors and the houses of Kufa will be connected to the river 
flow of Kalbala’.” 


THE DOMINION OF THE Q4’IM. 


Reports bave been handed down concerning the period of time of the dominion 
of the one who will rise (ga ’im), peace be on him, his times, the circumstances of 
his Shi‘a during them and the position of the world and those on it. 


[‘Abd al-Karim al-Ju‘fi reported: ] 
I Ge. ‘Abd al-Karim al-Ju‘ft) asked Abi ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be 
on him: “How long will the one who will arise (ga ’im), peace be on him, rule?” 


“Seven years,” he answered, “but the days will lengthen for him so that one 
of his years will be the same length as ten of your years. So the years of his 
dominion will be seventy of your years here. On his coming it will rain on the 
people during the month of Jumada al-Akhira and for ten days during the month 
of Rajab with rain, the like of which creatures have never seen. By it Allah will 
bring forth the flesh and bodies of the believers in the graves. It is as if I could 
see them advancing from Juhayna shaking off the soil from their hair.” 


[Al-Mufaddal b. ‘Umar reported:] 


518 


I (i.e. al-Mufaddal b. ‘Umar) heard Abu ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), peace be 
on him, “When the one of us who rises (ga ’im) rises, the earth will shine with the 
light of its lord. Men will not need the light of the sun and darkness will vanish. 
In his dominion a man will live so that he could have a thousand male sons born 
to him without a female. The earth will show its treasures so that the people will 
see them on its surface. Men will search for some one among you to receive their 
money and to take their alms-tax (zakat) but they will find no one to accept that 
from them. The people will not need it because of what Allah has provided for 
them out of His beneficence.” 


THE DESCRIPTION OF THE Q4’IM AND His APPEARANCE. 


Reports have been handed down about the descriptIon of the one who will arise 
and his kindness, peace be on him. 


[‘Amr b. Shamir reported on the authority of Jabir al-Ju‘fi, who said:] 

I (ie. Jabir al-Ju‘fi) heard Abu Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on him, say: “‘Umar b. 
al-Khattab questioned the Commander of the Faithful, peace be on him. He said: 
‘Tell me about the Mahdi, what is his name?’. He answered ‘As for his name (the 
Apostle), peace be on him, took a promise from me that I would never mention it 
until Allah sent him’. ‘Umar said: ‘Give me his description.’ He answered: ‘He is 
a young man of medium stature with a handsome face and beautiful hair. His hair 
flows on to his shoulders. A light rises on his face. The hair of his beard and head 
is black. By my father, he is the son of the best of mothers.’ 


THE ACTIONS AND MANNER OF THE LAWS OF THE QA’IM AT HIS COMING. 


The action of him, peace be on him, at his coming and the manner of his laws as 
well as his signs which Allah, the Exalted, has explained have been recorded in 
traditions as we have said before. 


[al-Mufaddal b. ‘Umar al-Ju‘fi reported: ] 

I (i.e. al-Mufaddal b. ‘Umar al-Ju‘ ft) heard Abi ‘Abd Allah Ja‘far b. Muhammad 
(al-Sadiq), peace be on them, say: “When Allah gives the one who will rise 
(qa im) permission to come forth, he will go up on the pulpit and summon the 
people to himself. He will commend them to Allah and summon them to His 
truth. He will practise among them the practice (sunna) of the Apostle ofAllah, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family. Allah, may His majesty be extolled, will 
send Gabriel, peace be on him, to go to him. He will come down on the wall of 
the Ka‘ba saying: ‘What are you calling people for?’ The Qda’im, peace be on 
him, will inform him. Gabnel will say: ‘I will be the first to pledge allegiance to 


519 


you. Stretch out your hand.’ He will rub it. Three hundred and some tens of men 
will come to him and pledge allegiance to him. He will stay in Mecca until his 
followers number ten thousand (thousand) persons. Then he will go to Medina” 


[Muhammad b. ‘Ajlan reported on the authority of Abu ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al- 
Sadiq), peace be on him.] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “When the Qa’im, peace be on him, rises, he will summon 
the people to Islam anew and guide them to a matter which had become lost and 
from which people had gone astray. He is only called the Mahdi (the one who 
guides) because he guides to a matter from which (men) have deviated. He is 
only called the Qa’im (the one who rises) because of his rising.” 


[‘Abd Allah b. al-Mughira reported on the authority of Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far 
al-Sadiq), peace be on him. ] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “When the Qa’im from the family of Muhammad, the 
blessings of Allah be on them, rises, five hundred members of Quraysh will come 
(against him) and he will strike off their heads. Then another five hundred will 
come (against him) and he will strike off their heads. A further five hundred will 
come (against him) until he has done that six times.” 


“Then the number of these men would be this?” I asked. 
“Yes,” he replied, “of them and of their retainers (mawali).” 


[Abu Basir reported:] 
Abt ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “When the Oa im, peace be on him, rises, 
he will destroy the Sacred Mosque so that it is reduced to its foundations. He 
will move the station to the place in which it was. He will cut off the hands of 
the Bant Shayba and hang them on the Ka‘ba. On it he will write: ‘These are the 
thieves of the Ka‘ba.’ 


[Abu al-Jariid reported on the authority of Abu Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on 
him, in a long account (hadith):]: 

(al-Baqir) said: “When the Qa’im, peace be on him, rises, he will go to Kifa and 
some ten thousand persons called the Batriyya* who will be wearing arms will 
come out (against him). They will say: ‘Go back where you came from. We have 
no need of the sons of Fatima.’ He will put them to the sword until he comes 
to the last of them. Then he will enter Kufa. There he will kill every doubting 
hypocrite and he will destroy their palaces. He will kill those who fight for them 
until Allah, the Mighty and High, is satisfied.” 


42 Abii al-Jartid became the founder of a sect of Zaydis with strong Imami influence. Their 
opponents within the ZaydI movement were the Batriyya. 


520 


[Abu Khadija reported on the authority of Aba ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al-Sadiq), 
peace be on him:] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “When the Qa’im, peace be on him, rises, he will come 
with a new commandment (from Allah) just as the Apostle of Allah, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, summoned (men) to a new commandment (from 
Allah) at the beginning of Islam.” 


[‘Ali b. ‘Uqba reported on the authority of his father, who said:] 

(He - an Imam - said:) “When the Qa’im, peace be on him, rises, he will rule 
with justice. In his time, injustice will be removed and the roads will be safe. 
The earth will produce its benefits and every due will be restored to its proper 
person. No people of any other religion will remain without being shown Islam 
and confessing faith in it. Have you not heard Allah, may He be praised. say: 
Those in the heavens and the earth submitted (aslama) to Him willingly and 
reluctantly To Him you will return (III 83). He will judge between the people 
with the judgement of David and the law of Muhammad, may Allah bless Him 
and His Family. At that time the earth will reveal its treasures and show its 
blessings. At that time men will not find any place to give alms nor be generous 
because wealth will encompass all the believers.” Then he added: “Our state is 
the last of the states, no House which has a state will remain except that they 
ruled before us, so that they will not be able to say when they see our actions, 
if we ruled, we would act in the same way as these. It is the word of Allah, the 
Exalted: The final result is for those who are pious (VII 128).” 


[Abt Basir reported on the authority of Abt Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on him, 
to a long account: ] 

(al-Baqir) said: “When the Qa’im, peace be on him, rises, he will go to Kufa. 
There he will destroy four mosques. There will not remain a mosque on the 
face of the earth which has a verandah except he will destroy it and make it flat. 
He will expand the main street and every (building) which juts out along the 
road will be destroyed. He will destroy the latrines and waste pipes (which jut 
out) on to the roads. There will be no innovation left which he does not remove 
and no religious practice (suwnna) which he does not establish. He will conquer 
Constantinople, China and the mountains of al-Daylam. He will remam (doing) 
that for seven years, each year being ten of your years. Then Allah will do what 
He wishes.” 


“May I be your ransom, how will He lengthen the years?” I asked. 

“Allah, the Exalted, will order the universe to slow down and lessen its 
movement and the days and the years will be longer because of that,” he 
answered. 


521 


“It is said that if the universe changes, it will be destroyed,” I said. 

“Those are the words of atheists (zanddiqa).” he replied. “There is no way for a 
Muslim to hold that view. Allah, the Exalted, has split the moon for His Prophet, 
may Allah bless Him and His Family, and He has sent the sun back to its 
earlier position for Joshua. He has informed us of the length of the day of the 
Resurrection. It will be like a thousand years in your reckoning.” 


[Jabir (al-Ju‘fi) reported on the authority of Abt Ja‘far (al-Baqir), peace be on 
him, to a long account:] 

(al-Baqir) said: “When the Qa’im from the family of Muhammad, may Allah 
bless Him and His Family, arises, he will set up encampments and he will teach 
the people the Qur’an as it was revealed by Allah, the Mighty and High. The 
greatest difficulty will be for those who have learnt it as it is today, because it 
differs from its (original) composition.” 


[al-Mufaddal b. ‘Umar reported on the authority of Aba ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al- 
Sadiq), peace be on him:] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “There will come with the Qa’im, peace be on him, from 
the outskirts of Kifa, twenty-seven men. Fifteen of the people of Moses, who 
shed their blood for the truth and remained true to it, seven people from the cave, 
Joshua, Salman, Abi Dujana al-Ansari, al-Miqdad and Malik al-Ashtar. They 
will act as helpers (ansar) and judges in his presence.” 


[‘Abd Allah b. ‘Ajlan reported on the authority of Aba ‘Abd Allah (Ja‘far al- 
Sadiq), peace be on him:] 

(Ja‘far al-Sadiq) said: “When the Qa’im of the family of Muhammad, may 
Allah bless Him and His Family, comes he will judge among the people with the 
judgement of David, peace be on him. Through the inspiration of Allah, the 
Exalted, he will not need evidence. He will judge through his knowledge and he 
will inform each people about what is their innermost secret. He will know his 
friend from his enemy by a process of immediate recognition (tawassum). Allah, 
may He be praised and exalted, said: Indeed in that there are signs for those 


capable of recognising them and they are a sure means (XV 75-76).” 
OK 2 2 2K 


It is reported that the period of time of the state of the Qa’im will be nineteen 
years, whose days and months will be lengthened as we have already described. 
This is a matter which is hidden from us. From it, it has been made known to 
us that what Allah, the Exalted, does is through the condition that He, may His 
name be exalted, knows the best interest. We do not positively assert anyone of 
the two matters (whether the state will be seven or nineteen years), even though 


522 


the reports about the seven years are clearer and more numerous. There is no 
state to anyone after the state of the Qa’im, peace be on him, except that there 
is a narration of one under the control of his sons, if Allah wishes that. However 
there is no positive assertion and proof for that. The majority of reports 
(maintain) that the Mahdi of the community will never depart except forty days 
before the Resurrection in which there will be ease and the dead arising and the 
coming of the Hour of Reckoning and Punishment. Allah knows best what will 
happen. May Allah bring success and correctness. Him do we ask for protection 
from error and we seek His help towards the path of guidance. May Allah bless 
our lord, Muhammad the Prophet, and his pure family. 


523 


CONCLUSION 


Al-Shaykh al-Sa‘id al-Mufid Muhammad b. Muhammad b. Nu‘man, may Allah 
be pleased with him and gather him with the steadfast, said: 


We have presented in every chapter of this book an extract from the reports 
(akhbar) in accordance with what the circumstances made possible. We have not 
related everything which has been handed down on each particular subject out 
of reluctance of being diffuse in our words and out of fear of causing boredom 
and annoyance by that. From the reports about the Qa ’im, the Mahdi, peace be 
on him, we have put forward what is similar in brevity to what went before. 
It would not be appropriate for anyone to attribute what we have omit- 
ted of that to neglect, nor to blame it on lack of knowledge by us, nor over- 
sight, nor carelessness. In what we have laid out as a summary of the proof of 
the Imamate of the Imams, peace be on them, and an extract from the report 
about them, there is sufficient for our purpose. May Allah bring success. He 
is sufficient for us and the best Agent. 


524