[[p 1]]
The
History of al-Tabari

[[p 2]]
The Victory of Islam
                             Volume VIII

                  Translated by Michael Fishbein

This volume covers the history of the Muslim community and the biography of
Muhammad in the middle Madman years. It begins with the unsuccessful last
Megan attack on Medina , known as the Battle of the Trench.

    Events following this battle show the gradual collapse of Macao resistance to
Islam. The out year, when Muhammad set out on pilgrimage to Mecca. the
Meccans at first blocked the road, but eventually a ten-year truce was negotiated
at al-Hudaybiyah, with Muhammad agreeing to postpone his pilgrimage until
the following year. The Tracy of al-Hudaybtyah was followed by a series of
Muslim expeditions. climaxing in the important conquest of IQraybar . In the fol-
lowing year Muhammad made the so-called Pilgrimage of Fulfillment unop-
posed.

   Al-Tabatfs account emphasizes Islams expanding geographical horizon during
this period. Soon after the Treaty of al-Hudaybiyah, Muhammad is said to have
sent letters to six foreign rulers inviting them to become Muslims . Another
example of this expanding horizon was the unsuccessful expedition to Mutah in
Jordan.

   Shortly afterward the Treaty of al-I;ludaybiyah broke down , and Muhammad
matched on Mecca. The Mec ans capitulated, and Muhammad entered the city
on his own terms . He created the city leniently, and most of the Meccan oli-
garchy swore allegiance to him as Muslims.

   Two events in the personal life of Muhammad during this period caused con-
troversy in the community. Muhammad fell in love with and married Zaynab bt.
Jahsh, the divorced wife of his adopted son Zayd. Because of Muhammad's scru-
ples, the marriage cook place only after a Qur'unic revelation permitting believers
to marry the divorced wives of their adopted sons . In the Affair of the Lae, accu-
sations against Muhammad's young wife `A'ishah were exploited by various fac-
tions in the community and in Muhammad's household. In the end, a Qur'anic
revelation proclaimed `A'isbah's innocence and the culpability of the rumormon-
gers.

   This volume of al-Tabari s Hutery records the collapse of Meccan resistance to
Islam, the triumphant return of Muhammad to his native city, the conversion to
Islam of the Megan oligarchy, and the community's successful weathering of a
number of potentially embarrassing events in Muhammad's private life.

SUNY Series in Near Eastern Studies            ISBN 0-?914-3150-9
Said Amir Arlomand , Editor

The State University of New York Press
Visit our web site at http:/www.sunyprc%s.cdu

                                               9 780791

[[p 3]]
THE HISTORY OF AL-TABARI

AN ANNOTATED TRANSLATION

                VOLUME VIII
               The Victory of Islam

                 MUI;IAMMAD AT MEDINA

              A.D. 626-63o/A.H. 5-8

[[p 4]]
e

                        The History of al-Tabari
                              Editorial Board

            Ihsan Abbas, University of Jordan, Amman
          C. E. Bosworth, The University of Manchester

                  Franz Rosenthal, Yale University
      Everett K. Rowson, The University of Pennsylvania
   Ehsan Yar-Shater, Columbia University General Editor)

               Estelle Whelan, Editorial Coordinator

                         Center for Iranian Studies
                             Columbia University

                                                  SUNY
                          SERIES IN NEAR EASTERN STUDIES

                     Said Amir Arjomand, Editor

                                   00

The preparation of this volume was made possible in part by
 a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities,

                  an independent federal agency.

[[p 5]]
Bibliotheca Persica
               Edited by Ehsan Yar-Shater

The History of al-Tabari

                    (Ta'rikh al-rusul wa'1-muluk)
                             VOLUME VIII

              The Victory of Islam
               translated and annotated

                             by
                Michael Fishbein

              University of California , Los Angeles

       State University of New York Press

[[p 6]]
Published by
State University of New York Press, Albany
© 1997 State University of New York
All rights reserved
Printed in the United States of America
No part of this book may be used or reproduced
in any manner whatsoever without written permission
except in the case of brief quotations embodied in
critical articles and reviews.
For information, contact State University of New York Press, Albany, NY
www.sunypress.edu

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Tabari, 838?-923.
     (Tarikh al-rusul wa-al-muluk. English. Selections]
     The victory of Islam / translated and annotated by Michael

  Fishbein.
         p. cm. - (SUNY series in Near Eastern studies ) (The History

   of al-Tabari - Tarikh al-rusul wa 'l-muluk ) v. 8) (Bibliotheca
   Persica)

     Includes bibliographical references (p. ) and index.
     ISBN 0-7914-3149-5 (alk. paper). - ISBN 0-7914-3150-9 (pbk. :
  alk. paper)
     x. Islam-History. 2. Islamic Empire-History-622-661.
   3. Muhammad, Prophet, d. 632. I. Fishbein, Michael. II. Title.
   III. Series. IV. Series: Tabari, 838-923. Tarikh al- rusul wa-al
   -muliik. English) v. 8. V. Series: Bibliotheca Persica (Albany,

   N.Y.)
   DS38.2.T313 1985 vol. 8

   [BP5 51
   909'.097671-dc20 96-30872

                                                                                        CIP

10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

[[p 7]]
46

                        Preface

                             00

THE HISTORY OF PROPHETS AND KINGS (Ta'rikh al-rusul wa'l-
muluk) by Abu Ja`far Muhammad b. Jarir al-Tabari (839-9231, here
rendered as The History of al-Tabari, is by common consent the
most important universal history produced in the world of Islam.
It has been translated here in its entirety for the first time for the
benefit of non-Arabists, with historical and philological notes for
those interested in the particulars of the text.

   In his monumental work al-Tabari explores the history of the
ancient nations, with special emphasis on biblical peoples and
prophets, the legendary and factual history of ancient Iran, and, in
great detail, the rise of Islam, the life of the Prophet Muhammad,
and the history of the Islamic world down to the year 9 15. The
first volume of this translation contains a biography of al-Tabari
and a discussion of the method, scope, and value of his work. It
also provides information on some of the technical considerations
that have guided the work of the translators. The thirty-ninth
volume is a compendium of biographies of early members of the
Muslim community, compiled by al-Tabari; although not strictly
a part of his History, it complements it.

  The History has been divided here into thirty-nine volumes,
each of which covers about 20o pages of the original Arabic text in
the Leiden edition. An attempt has been made to draw the divid-
ing lines between the individual volumes in such a way that each
is to some degree independent and can be read as such . The page
numbers of the Leiden edition appear in the margins of the trans-
lated volumes.

  Al-Tabari very often quotes his sources verbatim and traces the

[[p 8]]
vi Preface

chain of transmission (isndd) to an original source. The chains of
transmitters are, for the sake of brevity , rendered by only a dash
(-) between the individual links in the chain. Thus, "According
to Ibn I;Iumayd--Salamah--Ibn Ishaq" means that al-Tabari re-
ceived the report from Ibn Humayd, who said that he was told by
Salamah, who said that he was told by Ibn Isl}aq, and so on. The
numerous subtle and important differences in the original Arabic
wording have been disregarded.

  The table of contents at the beginning of each volume gives a
brief survey of the topics dealt with in that particular volume. It
also includes the headings and subheadings as they appear in al-
Tabari's text, as well as those occasionally introduced by the
translator.

  Well-known place names, like Mecca, Baghdad, Jerusalem, Da-
mascus, and the Yemen, are given in their English spellings. Less
common place names , which are the vast majority, are translit-
erated. Biblical figures appear in the accepted English spelling.
Iranian names are usually transcribed according to their Arabic
forms, and the presumed Iranian forms are often discussed in the
footnotes.

  Technical terms have been translated wherever possible, but
some, such as "dirham," and "imam," have been retained in Ara-
bic forms. Others that cannot be translated with sufficient preci-
sion have been retained and italicized , as well as footnoted.

  The annotation is aimed chiefly at clarifying difficult passages,
identifying individuals and place names, and discussing textual
difficulties. Much leeway has been left to the translators to in-
clude in the footnotes whatever they consider necessary and
helpful.

  The bibliographies list all the sources mentioned in the anno-
tation.

  The index in each volume contains all the names of persons and
places referred to in the text , as well as those mentioned in the
notes as far as they refer to the medieval period. It does not include
the names of modem scholars . A general index, it is hoped, will
appear after all the volumes have been published.

  For further details concerning the series and acknowledgments,
see Preface to Volume i.

                                                             Ehsan Yar-Shater

[[p 9]]
46

                         Contents

                          9

Preface / v

Abbreviations / ix

Translator's Foreword / xi

The Events of the Year 5 (626/627) / r
Muhammad's Marriage to Zaynab bt. Jabsh / i
The Expedition to Dumat al-Jandal and Other Events /4
The Battle of the Trench / 5
The Expedition against the Banu Quray7,ah / 27

The Events of the Year 6 (627/628) / 42
The Expedition against the Bane Libyan / 42
The Expedition to Dhu Qarad / 43
The Expedition against the Banu al -Mu^laliq / 5 r
An Account of the Lie / 5 7
The Prophet 's Lesser Pilgrimage from Which the Polytheists

   Turned Him Back: The Story of al-Hudaybiyah / 67
A Report That Khalid b. al-Walid Was Already a Muslim / 71
The Missions to Foreign Rulers / 98

[[p 10]]
viii Contents

The Events of the Year 7 (628/629) / rib
The Expedition to Khaybar / i 16
The Expedition of the Messenger of God to Wadi al-Qura / 124
The Affair of al-Iiajjaj b. 'Ilal al-Sulam! / 126
The Division of the Spoils of Khaybar / 128
Various Notices / 131
The Lesser Pilgrimage of Fulfillment / 133

The Events of the Year 8 (629/630) / 139
The Expedition against the Banu al-Mulawwiki / 139
Other Notices / 142
'Amr b. al-'A§ and Khalid b. al-Walid Go to Medina as

   Muslims / 143
Other Events of the Year 8 of the Hijrah / 146
The Expedition of Dhat al -Salasil / 146
The Expedition Known as al-Khabal / 147
Expeditions Involving Ibn Abi Hadrad and Abu Qatadah / 149
The Expedition to Mu'tah / 152
The Conquest of Mecca / 16o
The Destruction of Idolatrous Shrines / 187
The Expedition against the Banu Jadhimah / 188

Bibliography of Cited Works / 193

Index / 197

Index of Qur 'anic Passages / 215

[[p 11]]
Abbreviations

                           00

BSOAS: Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies
El': Encyclopaedia of Islam, 1st edition . Leiden, 1913-42
EP: Encyclopaedia of Islam , 2nd edition . Leiden, 1960-
GAS: F. Sezgin, Geschichte des arabischen Schrifttums, Leiden, 1967-
IH: Ibn Hisham, Sirat Rasul Allah, ed. M. al-Sagga et al., Cairo, 1936
W: al-Wagidi, Kitab al-maghazi, ed. Marsden Jones, London, 1966

[[p 12]]
lb

               Translator's Foreword

                             q1

This volume deals with the history of the Muslim community
from A.H. S to the first part of A.H. 8, roughly the middle of A.D. 626
to the beginning of 630 . During this time, the position of Muham-
mad and of the community acknowledging his prophethood and
following the religion embodied in the Qur 'an changed dra-
matically. At the beginning of the period the Meccan pagans with
their allies mounted a direct attack against Medina; by the end of
the period Mecca itself had capitulated , and most of its influential
leaders had become at least nominal Muslims . Medina itself had
become a purely Muslim polity. The last remaining Jewish tribe,
the Banu Qurayzah, had been defeated and annihilated, and the
internal Arab opposition (the so-called "hypocrites" led by 'Abdal-
lah b. Ubayy) had disintegrated. There were signs that Muham-
mad had begun to think about the future of Islam within and
beyond the Arabian peninsula . Although the factual basis of the
stories of Muhammad's letters to the rulers of the Byzantine, Per-
sian, and Ethiopian empires and their satellites in the Arabian
peninsula during this period cannot be determined, Muslim mili-
tary expeditions to destinations in northern Arabia (Dumat al-
Jandal and Khaybar) and the penetration into Byzantine territory
that ended with the battle of Mu'tah give evidence of expanding
political horizons . In short, although Muhammad and Islam at the
beginning of the period could still be seen as a local phenomenon,
by the end of the period Muhammad was, as one of his former
opponents put it, "the king of the Hijaz."

[[p 13]]
xii Translator's Foreword

  Although the political developments of the period are well-
documented in al-Tabari 's account, there is less material about
the doctrinal development of Islam. Some incidents may have
become part of the traditional biography of Muhammad because
of their ramifications for Islamic law. Muhammad 's marriage to
the divorced wife of his adoptive son Zayd and the punishment
meted out to those involved in spreading false rumors about the
chastity of Muhammad's young wife 'A'ishah had legal ramifica-
tions and as such merited inclusion, despite the sensitivity of the
subject. The arrangements made concerning the conquered lands
of Khaybar became important precedents for the treatment of con-
quered agricultural land in the early years of the caliphate and
beyond. As for the letters to foreign rulers, one can say that they
document the direction in which later Muslims believed Muham-
mad's sense of universal mission developed during this period.
Finally, the text of Muhammad's speech after the conquest of
Mecca contains interesting theological , as well as legal, material.

                    Mu1 ammad's Marriages

The marriage to Zaynab bt. Jahsh, with which al-Tabari's account
of the events A.H. S begins , was unlike Muhammad's previous
marriages . These had either cemented friendships with leading
Muslims (such were the marriages to'A'ishah bt. Abi Bakr in A.H.
i and to I Iafgah bt. 'Umar in A.H. 3) or involved Muslim widows in
need of support and protection (such were the marriages to
Sawdah bt. Zam'ah, whom Muhammad married while still at
Mecca, Umm Salamah bt. al-Mughirah in A.H. 4, and Zaynab bt.
Khuzaymah in A.H. 4). At the time of his marriage to Zaynab bt.
Jahsh, Muhammad was married probably to four women (there is
question about the date of his marriage to Juwayriyah , who was
captured in a raid dated by al-Wagidi in A.11. S, but which al-
Tabari, following Ibn Ishaq, places in A.R. 6). The account given by
al-Tabari, drawn from al-Wagidi (who uses material from'A'ishah)
and the Egyptian scholar Yunus b. 'Abd al-AU, but not from Ibn
Ishaq, portrays the marriage as growing out of strong physical
attraction. Zaynab, who was Muhammad's cousin, had been mar-
ried by Muhammad's arrangement to Muhammad 's freed slave
Zayd b. Harithah, who lived in Muhammad's household and came

[[p 14]]
Translator's Foreword xiii

 to be regarded as his adoptive son-so that he was regularly ad-
 dressed as Zayd, son of Muhammad. Whether the marriage be-
 tween Zayd and Zaynab was a mesalliance from the beginning is
 speculation, though the account maintains that Zayd was not
 reluctant to divorce his wife and allow her to marry Muhammad.
 Muhammad is portrayed as reluctant to proceed with the marriage
 because of scruples about whether marrying one's adopted son's
 former wife violated the prohibited degrees of marriage. Arab cus-
 tomary practice recognized kinship relations not based on blood
 ties: fosterage (having nursed from the same woman) was one such
 relationship; the question whether adoption fell into this category
 must have been unclear among Muslims . The marriage did not
 take place until after a Qur 'anic revelation was received, giving
permission for believers to marry the divorced wives of their
 adopted sons . One can see this as part of the development of Is-
 lamic family law-a rejection of the legal fiction that a stepparent
has a blood relationship with his ward that could affect the physi-
cal relationship of marriage. The account presented by al-Tabari
is forthright about the strength of the attraction and its role in
the marriage. Similar frankness appears in the account in A.H. 6
of Muhammad's marriage to Juwayriyah , " a sweet, beautiful
woman, who captivated anyone who looked at her" ( the words are
'A'ishah's). She had been captured during a raid on the Banu al-
Mu^laliq and, in accordance with custom, became the slave of one
of her captors. The latter agreed to free her in exchange for a sum
of money. Juwayriyah approached Muhammad for help, and the
latter, captivated by her beauty, offered her "something better"
than payment of the price of her freedom-namely, marriage with
himself. Other marriages during this period were to Rayhanah bt.
'Amr, captured in the attack on the Banu Quray;ah in A.H. 5 (she
apparently remained a concubine , rather than a full wife); Mariyah
the Copt in A.H. 6 or 7 (she was a gift from the ruler of Egypt);
Umm Habibah bt. Abi Sufyan in A.H. 6 or 7 (she was the widow of a
Muslim emigrant to Ethiopia); $afiyyah bt. Huyayy in A.H. 7 (she
was captured in the conquest of Khaybar ); and Maymunah bt. al-
I iarith in A.H. 7 (she was a widow and the sister -in-law of Muham-
mad's uncle al-'Abbas; the marriage, contracted while Muham-
mad was in a state of ritual consecration in connection with the
lesser pilgrimage, had legal ramifications).

[[p 15]]
xiv Translator's Foreword

             The Battle of the Trench (al-Khandaq)

The previous major engagement between the Muslims and the
Meccan pagans, the battle of Uhud, had ended inconclusively in
Shawwal of A.H. 3 (March 625 ). The Muslims had suffered heavier
casualties than in any previous engagement (the figure seventy is
given), but the Meccans also had suffered casualties and had re-
turned home without pressing for a more decisive conclusion.
Muslim morale had been badly shaken. The next major assault by
the Meccans on Medina-it was to be the last-took place two
years later, in Shawwal of A.H. 5 (February 627). According to the
composite account in al-Tabari, the initial stimulus came from a
group of Jews from the expelled Medinan tribe of Banu al-Nadir.
They went to Mecca and promised to aid Quraysh against their
common enemy, and they also enlisted the help of the north Ara-
bian tribe of GhatafAn. Because the attack included these Jewish
and north Arabian allies of the Meccans, it came to be known as
the attack of "the Allied Parties" (al-al.iznb). The Meccans and
their allies considerably outnumbered the Muslims (the figure of
xo,ooo attackers against 3 ,000 Muslim defenders is given), and the
Meccans had come with horses . The Meccan position, however,
was less commanding than it might appear. The remaining Jews of
Medina (the Banu Qurayzah) sided only reluctantly with the at-
tackers; Muhammad thus was able to trick the Meccans into be-
lieving that the Medinan Jews intended to betray them. The allies
from Ghaxafan proved ready to be bought off by an offer of a third
of the year's date harvest. Finally, employing a strategy suggested
by a Persian convert, Salman, the Muslims had constructed a
defensive trench along the northern approaches to Medina (the
southern approach, being mountainous, needed no fortification),
and this trench could not be jumped by the Meccan horsemen.
After nearly a month of standing in position, their provisions low
and the weather taking its toll , the Meccans retreated, their mo-
rale broken . They never again attempted an assault on Medina.

              The Attack on the Banu Qurayzah

An immediate consequence of the failure of the Meccan attack
was the extermination of the Jewish tribe of Band Quray;ah for
their support of the Meccans, however lukewarm it had been.

[[p 16]]
Translator's Foreword xv

Several motives for Muhammad 's behavior can be seen. There was
strategic fear that the Band QuraYZah might continue to be open
to the blandishments of their coreligionists. There was a religious
element too. Although the Bann QuraYZah were clients of the
Arab tribe of al-Aws, the leader of al-Aws deputed to pass judg-
ment on them (Sa'd b. Mu'adh) decided to reject the claims of the
Band QuraYZah as his clients and to act "for the sake of God." This
seems to indicate a feeling that the continued religious opposition
of the Jews made coexistence with them within Medina impossi-
ble. The brutality of the punishment (extermination of all adult
males, rather than expulsion or enslavement ) points to darker
motives of ethnic hatred and vengeance, and this dark side can be
seen in the fury with which the attack was launched . According to.
the account from Ibn Ishaq , the Angel Gabriel himself came to
Muhammad immediately after the withdrawal of Quraysh and
forbade him to lay down his arms : he was to hasten immediately
to attack the Band Qurayzah, and the angels would fight also. This
supernatural element indicates something beyond political
calculation. It also points to the fact that the treatment of the
Banu Qurayzah was unique and did not become a precedent for
subsequent Muslim treatment of the Jews, which, as demon-
strated by the fate of the Jews of Khaybar in A.H . 7, was more
lenient. Although the Jews of Khaybar had been involved in com-
promising relations with the Meccan pagans, they were allowed to
remain on their land and work it as sharecroppers for their new
Muslim overlords . Only in the caliphate of `Umar were they
forced to leave, and then as free men.

                   The Slander against 'A'ishah

The events of A.H . 6 included a number of expeditions. The expe-
dition against the Banu Lihyan, allies of Quraysh, involved a con-
siderable force of men sent to avenge the murder of a number of
Muslims. The expedition to Dhu Qarad was in reprisal for a raid
by Ghalafan. The expedition to al-Muraysf' against the Band al-
MulXaliq can be seen as a demonstration of Muslim control of the
coastal caravan route to Syria. The military and political aspects
of the raid were, however, overshadowed by an incident involving
Muhammad's young wife 'A'ishah. The first-person narrative by

[[p 17]]
xvi Translator's Foreword

'A'ishah of how she accidentally was left behind by the returning
Muslim caravan, her rescue by a young Muslim rider, the rumors
that this generated, and her eventual vindication in a Qur'anic
revelation forms one of the most interesting narratives of this
section of al-Tabari . 'A'ishah, who must have told the story to a
scholar years later (note her asides about how little she weighed at
the time, how insignificant she felt herself to be, and the primitive
toilet arrangements in Medina ), comes across as a talented racon-
teuse, with a good deal of psychological finesse and a sense of
time's changes. The narrative deserves careful literary, as well as
historical, attention.

     Relations with Mecca from al-Hudaybiyah to the
                                Conquest

In Dhu al-Qa'dah of A.H . 6 (March-April 6z8 ), about a year after the
Meccan retreat from Medina after the battle of the Trench,
Muhammad decided to set out with a body of his followers to
perform the rites of the lesser pilgrimage ('umrah ) in Mecca. The
framework of al-Tabari 's account of the episode is drawn from Ibn
Ishaq, with added details from a variety of other sources. For all its
richness, it says almost nothing about Muhammad's motives or
the political calculations involved . Al-Wagidi's account (W, II,
572) attributes the initial inspiration to a dream, but al-Tabari
does not include this detail. Under customary Arab religious prac-
tice the Meccans should have allowed the pilgrimage . The months
of Dhu al-Qa'dah and Dhu al-I lijjah were sacred months in which
fighting was banned, and Mecca itself was sacred territory
throughout the year . However, the Muslims had been known to
violate the sacred months , and the attitude of the new religion
toward the Meccan sanctuary, bound up as it was with the old
pagan dispensation, must have been a matter of question to the
Meccans. On the other hand, such a pilgrimage implied that Islam
did not intend to do away with Mecca 's religious significance and
that a modus vivendi might even be reached between Mecca and
the Muslim community . The extent to which Muhammad ex-
pected the Meccans to come round to his side , now that they had
apparently despaired of conquering Medina, cannot be determined

[[p 18]]
Translator's Foreword xvii

from the account. He traveled in pilgrim garb and brought animals
for sacrifice to demonstrate his peaceful intentions, but he also
traveled with a large party of men, which, according to one ac-
count, was armed. The Meccans put up a show of force and
blocked the main road . Muhammad managed to evade them, cross
a difficult pass, and encamp on the border of the Meccan sacred
territory, at al-Hudaybiyah, but he did not attempt to enter. Mes-
sengers came and went between the two sides, and eventually a
compromise was reached, although there were tense moments
when rumors of Meccan treachery against the Muslim negotiators
spread and it seemed that the negotiations would break down. At
one such moment, Muhammad summoned his followers to renew
their allegiance to him in what came to be known as "the Pledge
of Good Pleasure " (bay`at al-ridwan). The agreement finally
reached at al-Hudaybiyah between Muhammad and the Meccans
contained something for each side. Muhammad agreed to a ten-
year halt to hostilities against Mecca . The Meccans could there-
fore resume the caravan trade to Syria on which their economy
was based but were bound not to attack the Muslims . In return,
they agreed to allow Muhammad to make the pilgrimage the fol-
lowing year, provided that he came unarmed and stayed only three
nights. Muhammad, for his part, agreed not to accept converts
who came from Mecca without the permission of their guardians.
In return for this concession , the Meccans agreed to allow any
Arab tribes who desired to ally themselves with Muhammad to do
so, even if by implication this meant abandoning a previous al-
liance with Quraysh . In effect, Muhammad had extracted recogni-
tion as an equal from Quraysh. Although some members of the
community showed their disappointment at turning back with-
out entering Mecca, the disappointment gave rise to no organized
opposition. The days of the "hypocrites " were over. In any case, a
series of expeditions, climaxing in the conquest of the oasis of
Khaybar to the north, diverted the attention of the community. In
the following year, Muhammad made the lesser pilgrimage
unopposed.

  According to the sources used by al-Tabari, within a month
after the conclusion of the Treaty of al-Hudaybiyah Muhammad
dispatched letters to six foreign rulers , inviting them to become

[[p 19]]
xviii Translator's Foreword

Muslims. The implication is that the Treaty of al-I3udaybiyah
was the beginning of a period of Muslim diplomatic activity. The
historical basis of this assumption is unclear. While there is much
to suggest that Muhammad was interested in expanding his
sphere of influence northward, which would place him in contact
with the Byzantine and Persian spheres of influence; that he re-
ceived reports of the Byzantine-Persian war then drawing to its
conclusion, just as Byzantine intelligence received reports of
events in the Arabian peninsula ; and that he knew of the useful-
ness of Arab tributary states to these empires, the actual letters
are clearly literary fictions. They are comprehensible from the
point of view of Islamic law, in terms of the obligation to summon
non-Muslims to Islam before invading their territory, but in their
laconic wording they would have been incomprehensible to their
recipients. Only one of the letters, that to the Ethiopian negus,
contains significant individuating material; however, that mate-
rial (of a christological nature ) uses Qur'anic language that would
have been readily available to later Muslims. The reply by the
negus (the only reply quoted), with its offer to come personally, is
clearly apocryphal.

  Another example of Muhammad 's interest in the north is the
expedition that set out for Syria and was defeated by Byzantine
troops and their Arab allies at Mu'tah in Jordan during the month
of Jumada I, A.H. 8 (August-September 629). Al-Tabari 's account,
which relies almost entirely on Ibn Ishaq, says nothing about the
causes of the expedition. Al-Wagidi (W, II, 755) indicates that the
immediate occasion was the killing by Shurahbil b. 'Amr al-
Ghassani (the Banu Ghassan were allies of the Byzantines) of a
messenger whom Muhammad had sent to the ruler of Bugra in
Syria. Thus, although the motive for this mission to Bugra re-
mains a mystery, the immediate motive for the expedition was
retaliation. The deaths of Muhammad's adoptive son Zayd b.
I;larithah, his cousin Ja'far b. Abi Talib, and'Abdallah b. Rawahah
were a blow, but the total Muslim casualties were extremely light.
Al-Tabari gives no figures , but al-Wagidi lists only eight men.

  Shortly after the return of the unsuccessful expedition to Mu'-
tah, the truce of al-Iludaybiyah broke down when violence
erupted between the Banu Bakr, allies of Quraysh, and the Band

[[p 20]]
Translator's Foreword xix

Khuza'ah, allies of Muhammad. A group of Quraysh armed and
supported the Band Bakr, who killed several of the Band Khuza'ah.
A tribesman of the Khuza'ah then made his way to Medina and
called on the Muslims for aid. He was favorably received. Realiz-
ing the gravity of the situation, Abu Sufyan himself made his way
to Medina to attempt to repair the treaty. He was unsuccessful.
Soon Muhammad had set out with an army for Mecca. Further
negotiations took place near Mecca between Abu Sufyan and
Muhammad, who was poised to enter. Mecca by force. In the end,
it was Abu Sufyan who, by accepting Islam and Muhammad's
terms, made it possible for Muhammad to enter Mecca with a
minimum of fighting. The internal politics of Mecca that led Abu
Sufyan to make such a volte-face must be pieced together from
other historical accounts. Muhammad did not demand that the
Meccans convert to Islam . He promised safety to anyone who
entered the area around the Ka'bah, anyone who stayed within the
doors of his house, and anyone who took refuge in Abd Sufyan's
house. A few diehards fought, a few fled the city, but most of the
Meccans accepted the inevitable. Muhammad entered the city
and pronounced a general amnesty, with the exception of six men
and four women who were guilty of particular crimes. After a
sermon delivered by the door of the Ka'bah, he declared the Mec-
cans "free" (by convention they were legally his slaves as pris-
oners of war). This was followed by a ceremony in which the
Meccans swore allegiance to Muhammad as Muslims.

   Thus, in a period of four years, Muhammad had gone from being
besieged in Medina by the Meccans and their allies to being the
master of Mecca. It was a tremendous change of fortune, though
one should not exaggerate the extent of his success . Islam had not
yet made significant inroads into the tribes of central Arabia,
which could pose a threat even to the combined forces of Medina
and Mecca, as they did later in A.H. 8 at the battle of Hunayn.
Muhammad's religious policy was quite cautious at first. There
was no attempt at this date to make the Meccan pilgrimage an
exclusively Islamic rite. Pagans were allowed to make the pil-
grimage this year and the following year. But the victory of Islam
in Arabia, an object of faith alone in A.H. S, had become a realistic
possibility in A.H. 8.

[[p 21]]
xx Translator's Foreword

              AI-Tabari: His Sources and Methods

As in the earlier sections of his History dealing with the life of the
Prophet, al-Tabari in this section relies mainly on the biography of
the Prophet composed by In Ishaq (d. 150/767).1 Al-Tabari, who
was born in A.H. 224 or 225 (winter of A.D. 839), studied the bulk of
this material early in his life, when he was a student of Abu
'Abdallah Muhammad b. Humayd in Rayy ( near modem Tehran).
In Humayd had studied the work with Salamah b. al-Fatll, also
of Rayy, who in turn had studied it with the author, In Ishaq.
This means that al-Tabari had access to the work in a version
antedating the version that has survived to modem times, the
abridgment and recension made by 'Abd al-Malik b. Hisham
(d. 218/834). The typical isnad for al-Tabari's citations therefore
runs "Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq," to which al-Tabari
frequently appends the isnad found in In Ishaq. Al-Tabari also
studied other recensions of In Ishaq's work. For example, at page
1630 of the History we find the isnad, "Abu Kurayb-Yunus b.
Bukayr-Muhammad b. Ishaq." This refers to al-Tabari's study of
Ibn Ishaq's book under the Kufan scholar Abu Kurayb (d. 248/862),
who transmitted the recension made by Yunus b. Bukayr (d.
199/815). Al-Tabari's citations from Ibn Ishaq are extensive and
preserve virtually all the significant material of the original, as
comparison with the surviving text of. the Sirah will show.

   The main other work cited by al-Tabari in this section is the
Kitdb al-maghazi by the Medinan historian Muhammad b. 'Umar
al-Wagidi (d. 207/823 in Baghdad). His attitude toward this work
was very different from his attitude toward Ibn Isl} q's. In a notice
preserved in Yaqut's biographical encyclopedia, Irshad al-arib,2
al-Tabari is quoted as saying that he considered al-Wagidi unreli-
able as a transmitter of hadith and therefore quoted him in his
work on Qur'anic exegesis only when he referred to "history, biog-
raphy, or Arab stories" and only when the material could be found
only in his work; he quoted no legal traditions from al-Wagidi. A

   z. The work is commonly known by the title Sfrah or Sirat Raslil A11ah, which
is the title of the recension of the work prepared by Ibn Hishitm . Ibn Isl}aq's original
three-volume work was entitled Kitab al-maghazi and consisted of three parts: al-
Mubtada ', al-Mab'ath, and al-Maghazr. See EIz, s.v. Ibn Isl}a$.

   1. Translated in Rosenthal, "General Introduction," p. z zo.

[[p 22]]
Translator's Foreword xxi

comparison between the material from al-Wagidi quoted in the
History and the text of the Kitab al-maghazi demonstrates al-
Tabari's cautious use of al-Wagidi. Al-Tabari rarely quotes al-
Wagidi fully . Many details, sometimes crucial ones , are omitted. I
have therefore drawn attention to parallels to al-Wagidi in the
footnotes of my translation. Unfortunately, no English translation
of this text exists at the present time.

   To the material derived from these two main sources al-Tabari
added material derived from his studies with many leading
scholars of his time . Franz Rosenthal's "General Introduction" to
the first volume of this series is the most convenient place for the
English reader to gain an idea of the scope of this material. The
work of Fuat Sezgin in the first volume of his Geschichte des
arabischen Schrifttums should also be consulted for its thorough
presentation of the Islamic scholarship on which al-Tabari drew.

                         A Note on the Text

The translation follows the text of the Leiden edition , which ap-
peared in installments between 1879 and 1898 under the general
editorship of M. J. de Goeje. The section here translated (A.H. 5-8)
appears in Volume 1/3, pages 1460-r654, which was edited by the
Dutch scholar Pieter de Jong of Utrecht, after the death in 1881 of
Professor Otto Loth of Leipzig, to whom the section was originally
assigned . De Jong edited I,1o83-2015 . The following manuscripts
were available for pages 1460-1654: Istanbul, Koprulu 1042
(siglum C in the apparatus), part of a three-volume set copied in
Cairo in 651 A.F1., covering the entire section; Codex Muir (siglum
M) in the British India Office library, covering the section to page
1480; and Codex Spitta (siglum S) in the Deutsche Morgenlan-
dische Gesellschaft, covering the entire section . Thus de Jong had
at least two manuscripts for this section, and for the first twenty
pages he had three with which to work. In addition, he carefully
collated the text with parallel passages in the standard collections
of l)adith, Ibn Hisham, al-Tabari's Tafsir, the Kitab al-Aghani of
Abu al-Faraj al-I§fahini, and later historians such as Ibn al-Athir.
The result is a text with few real problems.

   Al-Tabari's History was reedited in Egypt by Muhammad Abu
al-Fadl Ibrahim ( i 960), who used the printed Leiden text as a basis

[[p 23]]
xxii Translator's Foreword

but consulted a few additional manuscripts , none of which con-
tained the text for the section translated here. Nevertheless, I have
consulted the Cairo edition for its useful explanatory notes and
have noted where its text differs from that of ed. Leiden because of
editorial decision or possible misprint.

   I have indicated parallel passages , especially in the works of Ibn
Hisham and al-Wagidi, occasionally in other works. I do not pre-
tend that this is a complete list of parallels . Given the selective
nature of al-Tabari's work for this period, the historian must sup-
plement it with readings in other surviving Arabic works . In addi-
tion to Ibn Hisham and al -Wagidi, the material on the life of the
Prophet in Ibn Sa`d's Tabagat and in al-Baladhuri's Ansab al-
ashraf is particularly rich.

   For the conversion of Islamic dates I have used the standard
tables of F. Wustenfeld and E . Mahler. These follow the later Ara-
bic convention of assuming that the present purely lunar Islamic
calendar with no intercalated months was in force from the first
year of Muliammad's residence in Medina, almost certainly a false
assumption . The custom of intercalating extra months to keep the
lunar months in phase with the seasons was followed by the pre-
Islamic Arabs, as by the Jews, and was forbidden only in the tenth
year of the Hijrah. It is therefore likely that three or four of the
Islamic years from i to to contained an extra month . As we do not
know in what years such months were added, we have no way of
working out exact correspondences . Furthermore, as the introduc-
tion of dating by the Islamic era occurred during the caliphate of
'Umar, the dating of events of the Prophet 's lifetime was often a
matter on which there was disagreement . This was frequently the
case with some of the minor expeditions , which are mentioned by
Ibn Hisham without dates in a separate section at the end of the
Sirah.

  I wish to express my appreciation to four previous translators in
this series who blazed a well-marked trail . To use Arabic termi-
nology, I have used their works through wijadah (finding them)
but without ijdzah (license to transmit personally bestowed by a
master on a pupil ). To Franz Rosenthal of Yale University, the
translator of Volume I of this series , all English-speaking students
of al-Tabari owe a great debt of gratitude, especially for his master-
ful "General Introduction." M. V. McDonald and W. Montgomery

[[p 24]]
Translator's Foreword xxiii

Watt, who translated and annotated Volume VII , have done much
to clarify the complicated tribal politics of the period . Ismail K.
Poonawala, my colleague at the University of California at Los
Angeles and the translator of Volume IX , helped especially with
the isnads. For the inevitable errors and shortcomings, I alone bear
responsibility.

                                                            Michael Fishbein

[[p 26]]
The
                  Events of the Year

                      5

               (JUNE 2, 626-MAY 22, 627)

                                                  40

         Muhammad's Marriage to Zaynab bt. Jahsh

In this year the Messenger of God married Zaynab bt . Jahsh .1 [ 146o]
   According to Muhammad b. 'Umar [al-Wagidi]2_ 'Abdallah b.

'Amir a1-Aslami3-Muhammad b. Yahya b. Ilabban,4 who said:

   r. Zaynab was the daughter of Mubammad 's paternal aunt Umaymah bt. 'Abd
a1-Mutlalib and Jal<ish b. Ri'ab, a member of the tribe of Asad b. Khuzaymah, who
had settled in Mecca and become a -confederate of the Band Umayyah of the 'Abd
Shams clan of Quraysh. Muhammad had arranged her marriage to his freedman
and adopted son, Zayd b. Ilarithah . Cf. EI', a.v. Zainab bint Dlahsh; Lings, Muham-
mad, 40; Stowasser, Women in the Qur'an, Traditions, and Interpretation, 87-89.

   2. Muhammad b. 'Umar al-Wagidi (b. 130/747 in Medina, d. 207/823 in Baghdad)
was a major historian and author of Kitab al-maghaz on the military campaigns of
the Prophet. See GAS, I, 294-97.

   3. 'Abdallah b . 'Amir al-Aslami Abu 'Amir al -Madani was a traditionist who
died in Medina in 150/767-68 or 151 /768. As a transmitter of badith he was
considered "weak." See An l lajar, Tahdhib, V, 275-76.

  4. Muhammad b. Yahya b. l Iabban al-Angari al-Mizini was a scholar who taught
in Medina. He died in 121 /738-39 at the age of seventy-four. See In Iiajar, Tah-
dhib, IX, 507-8.

[[p 27]]
2 The Victory of Islam

[1461]  The Messenger of God came to the house of Zayd b. I iarithah.5
        (Zayd was always called Zayd b. Muhammad. j Perhaps the Mes-
        senger of God missed him at that moment, so as to ask, "Where is
        Zayd?" He came to his residence to look for him but did not find
        him. Zaynab bt. Jalish, Zayd's wife, rose to meet him. Because she
        was dressed only in a shift, the Messenger of God turned away
        from her. She said: "He is not here, Messenger of God. Come in,
        you who are as dear to me as my father and mother!" The Mes-
        senger of God refused to enter. Zaynab had dressed in haste when
        she was told "the Messenger of God is at the door." She jumped up
        in haste and excited the admiration of the Messenger of God, so
        that he turned away murmuring something that could scarcely be
        understood. However, he did say overtly: "Glory be to God the
        Almighty! Glory be to God, who causes hearts to turn!"

          When Zayd came home, his wife told him that the Messenger of
        God had come to his house. Zayd said, "Why didn't you ask him to
        come in?" She replied, "I asked him, but he refused." "Did you
        hear him say anything?" he asked. She replied, "As he turned
        away, I heard him say: 'Glory be to God the Almighty! Glory be to
        God, who causes hearts to turn!"'

          So Zayd left, and, having come to the Messenger of God, he said:
        "Messenger of God, I have heard that you came to my house. Why
        didn't you go in, you who are as dear to me as my father and
        mother? Messenger of God, perhaps Zaynab has excited your ad-
        miration, and so I will separate myself from her." The Messenger
        of God said, "Keep your wife to yourself." Zayd could find no
        possible way to [approach] her after that day. He would come to
        the Messenger of God and tell him so, but the Messenger of God

          5. Zayd b. I;iarithah was brought to Mecca as a slave by a nephew of Muham-

        mad's first wife, Khadijah. The nephew sold Zayd to Khadijah, who gave him to
        Muhammad before the beginning of his calling as a prophet . Although Zayd's
        father later came to Mecca to free his son, Zayd refused to leave Muhammad, who
        subsequently freed him and adopted him. Zayd came to be known thereafter as
        Zayd b. Muhammad. He was a very early convert to Islam and emigrant to Medina,
        fought at Badr, Uhud, and the Trench, was present at al-Hudaybiyah, and com-
        manded several expeditions. He died as one of the commanders of the expedition to
        Mu'tah in A. H. 8. See Eli, s.v. Zayd b. Harithah.

[[p 28]]
The Events of the Year 5  3

would say to him, "Keep your wife." Zayd separated from her and                          [14621
left her, and she became free .6

  While the Messenger of God was talking with 'A'ishah, 7 a faint-
ings overcame him. When he was released from it, he smiled and
said, "Who will go to Zaynab to tell her the good news, saying that
God has married her to me? " Then the Messenger of God recited:
"And when you said unto him on whom God has conferred favor
and you have conferred favor, 'Keep your wife to yourself ...'
and the entire passage.9

  According to 'A'ishah, who said: "I became very uneasy because
of what we heard about her beauty and another thing, the greatest
and loftiest of matters-what God had done for her by giving her
in marriage. I said that she would boast of it over us."

  According to'A'ishah, who said : "Salmi, the maidservant of the
Messenger of God, went out to inform Zaynab of this, and
[Zaynab] gave [Salma) some anklets that she was wearing."lo

   6. Sc. from any impediment to marriage. Ordinarily this implied abstinence
from conjugal relations with the former husband for a time ('iddah ) long enough to
establish that the woman was not pregnant by him , thereby removing any uncer-
tainty about the paternity of any future children . The passage implies that Zayd
divorced Zaynab.

   7. The marriage of Muhammad to Abu Bakr 's daughter 'A'ishah was arranged

after the death of Khadijah and three years before the emigration to Medina.

'Aiishah was only six years old at the time , and the marriage was not consummated

until seven or eight months after the Hijrah , when 'A'ishah was about ten years old
(v. al-Tabari, I, 1261 ). She was very beautiful and remained Mul)ammad's favorite

wife. See Ell, s.v. 'A'ishah bt. Abi Bakr; Abbott , Aishah the Beloved of Muham-
mad, and Spellberg, Politics, Gender, and the Islamic Past.

   8. Arabic ghashyah, a swoon or fainting spell; literally "a covering": here sig-
nifying an episode of revelation (waiiy). See El', s.v. waly, for a description of such
episodes.

  9. Qur'an 33 :37. The verse continues: "'.:. and fear God.' And you did hide in
your mind that which God was to bring to light, and you did fear mankind whereas
God had a better right that you should fear Him. So when Zayd had performed the
necessary formality (of divorce) from her, We gave her unto you in marriage, so that
(henceforth) there may be no sin for believers in respect of wives of their adopted
sons, when the latter have performed the necessary formality (of release) from
them. The commandment of God must be fulfilled ." Cf. the commentary on the
passage in al-Tabari, Jami" al-bayan, XXII, io-11.

   10. The pronouns in the Arabic are ambiguous regarding who gave whom the

anklets. My translation is suggested by a similar incident at p. 109, below, where

another prospective bride of the Prophet gives the bearer of the good news a gift out

of joy.

[[p 29]]
4 The Victory of Islam

           According to Yiinus b. 'Abd al-A'lall-Ibn Wahb12-Ibn
         Zayd,13 who said : The Messenger of God had married Zayd b.
         Iiarithah to Zaynab bt. Jahsh, his paternal aunt 's daughter. One
         day the Messenger of God went out looking for Zayd. Now there
         was a covering of haircloth over the doorway , but the wind had
         lifted the covering so that the doorway was uncovered. Zaynab
         was in her chamber, undressed, and admiration for her entered the
         heart of the Prophet . After that happened, she was made unattrac-
         tive to the other man.14 So he came and said, "Messenger of God, I
         want to separate myself from my companion." Muhammad asked:
         "What is wrong? Has anything on her part disquieted you?" "No,
         by God," replied Zayd, "nothing she has done has disquieted me,
         Messenger of God, nor have I seen anything but good." The Mes-
         senger of God said to him , "Keep your wife to yourself, and fear
         God." That is [the meaning of ] the Word of God : Is "And when you

         said unto him on whom God has conferred favor and you have
         conferred favor, 'Keep your wife to yourself, and fear God.' And
         you did hide in your mind that which God was to bring to light."
         You did hide in your mind (the thought ] that "if he separates
         himself from her, I will marry her."

[ 1463]     The Expedition to Dumat al-jandal and Other Events

         According to al-Wagidi: In this year he mounted an expedition
         against Dumat al-Jandal16 in the month of Rabi' I.17 The reason for

            11. Yunus b. 'Abd al-AU was born in 170/787 and died in 264/877. He was
         Egypt's leading scholar in the fields of badith and Qur'an reading . Al-Tabarl stud.
         led with him in Egypt . See GAS, 1, 38 (which identifies this isnAd as pointing to a
         Qur'an commentary by 'Abd al -Rabman b. Zayd b. Aslam), and F. Rosenthal, in

         "General Introduction," 27.
            12. 'Abdallih b. Wahb b . Muslim al -Fihri al-Qurashi was born in Egypt in

         125/743 and died in 197/812. He was a traditionist, Qur'an commentator, and
         jurist, and was a student of Malik b . Anas. See GAS, I, 466.

            13. 'Abd al-Rabman b. Zayd b. Aslam al-'Adawi of Medina (d. 182/7981 was
         known primarily as a Qur'an commentator. See Ibn I;Iajar, Tahdhib, VI, 177-78

         GAS, I, 38.
            14. I.e., God caused her to become unattractive to her husband Zayd . Cf. Stow-

         asser, Women in the Qur'an, T)raditions, and Interpretation, 88.

           15. Qur'an 33:37.

            16. Dumat al-Jandal is an oasis in northern Arabia at the head of Wadi Sirban. It
         was inhabited by the Band Kinanah subtribe of the Banu Kalb, plus some Christian
         Arabs. The present town of al-Jawf is on the site . See EI2, s.v. Dumat al -p andal.

            17. Rabi' I of A.H. 5 began on 31 July 626 . Parallels: IH, III, 213 (tr. Guillaume,

         449), W, 1, 402 -4 (fuller version).

[[p 30]]
The Events of the Year 5 5

 it was that word reached the Messenger of God that a host had
 assembled there and had approached his territories; so the Mes-
 senger of God mounted an expedition against them and reached
 Dumat al-Jandal, but he had no clash with the enemy. He left Sibs'
 b. 'Urfutah al-Ghifari in charge of Medina.

   According to Abu Ja'far [al-Tabari]: In this year the Messenger of
 God made a truce with 'Uyaynah b. IIi§n18 that the latter might
 pasture his herds in Taghlaman and its vicinity.

   According to Muhammad b. 'Umar [al-Wagidi]-Ibrahim b.
Ja'far-his father [Ja'far b. Mahmud]:19 This was because 'Uyay-
 nah's lands became affected by drought. The Messenger of God
 therefore made a truce, so that 'Uyaynah might pasture his herds
in Taghlaman as far as al-Marad.20 The land there had become
lush with pasturage because of a rain cloud that had arrived. The
Messenger of God made a truce with him that he might pasture
his herds there.

   According to al-Wagidi: In this year the mother of Sa'd b.
'Ub5dah21 died while Sa'd was journeying with the Messenger of
God to Dumat al-Jandal.

                      The Battle of the Trench

In this year the battle of the Messenger of God at the trench took
place in the month of Shawwa1,22 according to Ibn Ilumayd23-

   r8. 'Uyaynah b. Hivn b. Hudhayfah was leader of the Bann Fazirah subdivision
of the tribe of Dhubyan ( itself part of Ghatafan). See Watt, Muhammad at Medina,
91-92; and E12, s.v. Fazira.

   r9. Parallel: W, II, 552. Ibrahim b. Ja'far b. Mahmud b. Muhammad b. Maslamah
al-An§ari al-Iiarithi was a frequent informant of al-Wagidi, providing information
from his father. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, 11, io6.

   20. Al-MarA4 was about 36 Arab miles from Medina, in the area of al-Taraf
(present-day al-$uwaydirah) on the road to Iraq, according to al-Samhudi, Khuld$at
al-wafa', 578-79, 604.

   21. Sa'd b. 'Ubidah of the Band Si'idah clan was a leader of the tribe of al-Khazraj
of Medina. See also Ibn I;iajar, Tahdhfb, III, 475-76.

   22. Shawwil of A.H. 5 began on 23 February 627. For general background, the
article Khandak in E12 by W. Montgomery Watt may be consulted, as well as
Hamidull-ah, The Battlefields of the Prophet Muhammad, 29-36.

   23. Muhammad b. Humayd b. Hayyan al -Rani al-Tamimi died in al-Rayy in
248/862 . See In I;lajar, Tahdhib, IX, 127-35; al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta'rikh
Baghdad, II, 259-64.

[[p 31]]
6 The Victory of Islam

[1464]  Salamah24-Ibn Ishaq.25 What brought on the battle of the Mes-
        senger of God at the trench, according to what has been reported,
        was what happened because of the expulsion of the Banu al-Nadir

        from their settlements by the Messenger of God.26
          According to Ibn Iiumayd -Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-

        Yazid b. Ruman27 (a mawla of the family of al-Zubayr )-'Urwah

        b. al-Zubayr)28 and [according to] someone whom I do not doubt-
        'Ubaydallah b. Ka'b b. Malik, 29 al-Zuhri,30'Agim b. 'Umar b. Qata-
        dah,31 'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr b. Muhammad b. 'Amr b. I3azm,32
        Muhammad b. Ka'b al-Qura;i,33 and others of our learned men

          24. Salamah b. al-Fa41 al-Angari died in r91/8o6. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhlb, N,

        153-54.
          z5. Muhammad b. Ishgq b. Yasir, born in Medina ca. 85/207, died in Baghdad in

        150/767, was the most influential of the early biographers of the Prophet. His
        Kitab al-maghazi, in its recension by Ibn Hisham, d. 2,8/834, generally known as
        Sirat Rasul Allah, or simply the Sarah, became the standard treatment of the
        events of the Prophet's life. See E12, s.v. Ibn Isl Al , Guillaume, The Life of Muham-
        mad (tr. of Ibn HishAm's Sfrah), pp. xiii-xli) GAS, 1, 288-90.

           26. For the expulsion of the Jewish tribe of Band al-Na51ir in the previous year,

        see al-Tabari, I, 1448-53. The tribe had left for Khaybar and Syria to the north,
        forfeiting their property in Medina. See E12, s.v. Na4ir, Band 1-.

           27. Yazid b. Roman al-Asadi (d. 130/747) was a mawla (a client, i.e., a freed slave

        or a person of non-Arab origin) of the al-Zubayr family and author of a book about

        the Prophet's campaigns. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 3251 GAS, I, 284.
          28. 'Urwah b. al-Zubayr b. al-'Awwam al-Asadi (b. between 23/643 and 29/649,

        d. 94/712-13) was the son of a prominent companion of the Prophet and the
        younger brother of 'Abdallah b. al-Zubayr, whose challenge to the caliphate of the
        Umayyads ended with his death in 73/692. He became one of the most respected
        authorities of Medina on traditions and early Islamic history. See Ibn Hajar, Tah-
        dhib, VII, 180-85; GAS, 1, 278-79; Duri, Rise of Historical Writing, 76-95.

           29. Abu Fadalah 'Ubaydallih b. Ka'b b. Malik a1-Angirl (d. 97/715 or 98) is

        identified by al-Tabari (I, 1364) as "one of the most learned of the Angir." See Ibn

        Hajar, Tahdhib, VII, 44-451 GAS, 1, 276-77.
           30. Muhammad b. Muslim b. 'UbaydallAh b. 'Abdallah b. Shihib al-Zuhri (b.

        50/670 or 51, d. 124/742) was a celebrated traditionist and historian. See Ibn Hajar,
        Tahdhib, IX, 445-511 El', s.v. al-Zuhri) GAS, I, 280-83, Duri, Rise of Historical
        Writing, 95-121.

           31. Aim b. 'Umar b. Qatidah al-Angari (d. 120/737) was known as an authority

        on the campaigns of the Prophet. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 53-54, GAS, I, 279-80.

           32. 'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr b. Muhammad b. 'Amr b. Hazm al-Madani was born in

        60/679 (or in 56) in Medina and died in 130/747 (or 135). He was a transmitter of

        historical reports and traditions, which he received from his father (died 120/737)
        and from Anas b. Malik. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 164-651 GAS, 1, 284.

           33. Muhammad b. Ka'b b. Sulaym al-Qura:Fi (d. 118/736), the son or grandson of
        a convert to Islam from the Band Quray7ah, was known primarily as a commenta.
        for on the Qur'an. See Ibn Sa'd, Tabagat, V, 272-73, VII/2,193) Ibn Hajar, Tahdhlb.
        IX, 420-22; GAS, I, 32.

[[p 32]]
The Events of the Year 5 7

(the report of each has been combined in this account of the
Trench, some of them relating what others do not relate):-34 The
account of the trench is as follows. A group of Jews, including
Salam b. Abi al-I Iugayq al-Nadari 35 Huyayy b. Akhtab al-Nadari,
Kinanah b. al-Rabi' b. Abi al-Hugayq al-Nadari, Hawdhah b. Qays
al-Wa'ili, and Abu 'Ammar al-Wa'ili, along with a group of men
from the Banii al-Nadir and a group from the Banu Wa'il,36 were
the ones who assembled parties of men against the Messenger of
God. They went to the Quraysh in Mecca and invited them to
make war on the Messenger of God. They said, "We will be with
you against him until we root him out." The Quraysh said to
them: "People of the Jews, you are the people of the first scrip-
ture,37 and you have knowledge about the subject on which we
and Muhammad have come to differ. Is our religion better or his?"
"Your religion is better," they said, "and you are closer to the
truth than he."

   They are the ones concerning whom God revealed: "Have you
not seen those to whom a portion of the scripture has been given,
how they believe in idols and false deities, and how they say of
those who disbelieve, 'These are more rightly guided than those
who believe'?"-until the words, "Hell is sufficient for [their)
burning."38

   When they said this to Quraysh, the latter were pleased by what
they said and embarked enthusiastically on what they invited
them to do, namely, make war on the Messenger of God. They
determined to do it and decided on a time for it 39 Then the same

   34. Parallel: IH, III, 214 ff.; tr. Guillaume, 450 ff.
   35. I.e., of the Jewish tribe of Band al-Nadir.
   36. The Banu Will were a clan of the Aws Manat of Medina. They seem to have
lived among the Jews; here they are treated as if they were Jews. See Watt, Muham-
mad at Medina, i54, 164.
   37. I.e., the Torah.
   38. Qur'an 4:51 -55. For "idols and false deities " the Arabic reads al-jibt and al-
Fdghtlt." Commentators disagreed on the exact meaning . Al-Sha'bi said that the
words meant "they believe in enchantment and the devil ." Ibn'Abbas thought the
words referred specifically to Huyayy b. Akhtab and Ka'b b. al-Ashraf or that these
two Jews prostrated themselves before the gods of Quraysh in order to induce
Quraysh to join with them in a league against Muhammad . See Lane, Lexicon, I,
373, s.v. jibt.
  39. For itta'adti "decided on a time," Ms. S reads ista'addd "prepared
themselves."

[[p 33]]
8 The Victory of Islam

           group of Jews set out and came to [the tribe of [ Ghatafan,40 a
           division of Qays 'Aylan, and called on them to make war on the
114651 Messenger of God. The Jews told them that they would be with
           them against him and that Quraysh had followed them and had
           decided on the matter. So they responded favorably. Quraysh set
           out under the leadership of Abu Sufyan b. Harbj41 Ghalafan set out
           under the leadership of 'Uyaynah b. Hign b. Iludhayfah b. Badr
           with the Banu Fazarah, al-I3arith b. 'Awf b. Abi Harithah al-Murry
           with the Banu Murrah, and Masud b. Rukhaylah b. Nuwayrah b.
           Tarif b. Suhmah b. 'Abdallah b. Hilal b. Khalawah b. Ashja' b.
           Rayth b. Ghalafan with those of his fellow tribesmen from Ashja'
           who followed him. When the Messenger of God received word of
           them and what they had determined to do, he laid out a trench to
           protect Medina.

             According to Muhammad b. 'Umar [al-Wagidi], who said:42 The
           person who advised the Messenger of God about the trench was
           Salman.43 It was the first combat that Salman saw with the Mes-
           senger of God. He was a free man at this time . He said, "Messenger
           of God, in Persia, whenever we were surrounded, we would dig a
           trench to protect ourselves."

             Resumption of the account of Ibn Ishaq: The Messenger of God
           worked [at building the trench ] in order to inspire the Muslims
           with hope of reward, and they set to work on it. He toiled at it, and
[1466] they toiled. Certain men of the hypocrites44 hung back from the

                  40. Ghatafan was a group of North Arabian tribes to the east of Medina and
               Mecca in the land between the Hijaz and the Shammar Mountains. Among its
               divisions were 'Abs, Ashja', and Dhubyan-the latter with its divisions Fazarah
               (the tribe of 'Uyaynah b. Hionj, Murrah, and Tha'labah. See Watt, Muhammad at
               Medina, g1-95) E12, s.v. Ghalafan.

                41. Abu Sufyanb. Harb b. Umayyah, of the clan of 'Abd Shams of Quraysh, was a
             prominent Meccan merchant. See E12, s.v. Abu Sufyan.

                  42. Parallel: W, 445.
                43. For the religious quest and conversion to Islam of Salman, a Persian land-
             owner's son who had gone to Syria to learn about Christianity and then to Arabia
             to investigate prophecies of a new religion , see IH, I, 214-22) tr. Guillaume, 95-98k
             Ell, s.v. Salman al-Farisi.
                44. The mundfigan "hypocrites, waverers"-Brockett in E12, s.v., prefers the
             rendering "dissenters "-were nominal Muslims who secretly opposed many of
             Muhammad's policies. 'Abdallah b. Ubayy was said to be their leader . See also
             Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 180-91.

[[p 34]]
The Events of the Year 5 9

Messenger of God and from the Muslims in their work. They                            (1467]
began pretending to be too weak to work and slipping away to
their families without the knowledge or permission of the Mes-
senger of God. As for the Muslims , whenever some matter of
unavoidable necessity befell any of them, he would mention it to
the Messenger of God and ask leave to attend to his need, and the
Messenger of God would grant him leave. Having attended to his
need, the person would return to the work he had been doing-
this from a desire for good and because he reckoned on a reward for
his work. Concerning this, God revealed: "They only are the true
believers who believe in God and His Messenger and, when they
are with him on some common enterprise, go not away until they
have asked leave of him"-until the words "and ask for them for-
giveness of God . Lo! God is forgiving, merciful ."45 This verse was
revealed about all those believers who were people who reckoned
 on a reward in the world to come], desired good, and obeyed God
and His Messenger. God then said, referring to the hypocrites who
would slip away from work and depart without leave from the
Messenger of God: "Make not the calling of the Messenger among
you as your calling one of another"-until the words "He knows
your condition."46 (That is, He knows your condition with regard
to truthfulness or lying.) The Muslims worked at the trench until
they had finished it solidly. As they were working, they im-
provised a work song47 about a Muslim who used to be called Ju'ayl
but whom the Messenger of God had named 'Amr. They said:

After he had been Ju'ayl, he named him 'Amr;
     and to the once needy man he was backing.

Whenever they came to the word "`Amr," the Messenger of God
would say "`Amr"; whenever they said "backing," the Messenger
of God would say "backing."

   45. Qur'an, 24:62.
   46. Qur an, 24:63-64.

   47. Arabic: "they recited a verse in rajaz" (the meter used for extemporized
poems) . See Goldziher, Abhandlungen zur arabischen Philologie, I, 8o. The name

change to which the verse alludes may have been made to improve Ju'ayl's morale,
as his name appears to be a diminutive of ju'al "dung beetle." In W, 447, Ju'ayl is
said to have been "pious but ugly." Cf. Ibn Hajar, Isabah, I, 49.

[[p 35]]
to The Victory of Islam

  According to Muhammad b. Bashshar48-Muhammad b. Khalid
Ibn 'Athmah49-Kathir b. 'Abdallah b. 'Amr b. 'Awf al-Muza-
ni50-his father ['Abdallah b. 'Amr]51-his father ['Amr b.

'Awf ],52 who said: The Messenger of God laid out the trench in the
Year of the Parties,53 from the Fortress of the Two Shaykhs (ujum
al-shaykhaynj on the side of the Banu liarithah54 until it reached
al-Madhad.55 He divided it up forty cubits between each ten
[men].56 The Emigrants57 and the Ang1r58 disputed over Salman

the Persian, who was a strong man. The Angar said, "Salman is
one of us." The Emigrants said, " Salman is one of us." So the
Messenger of God said, " Salman is one of us, the People of the
Household. "59

  According to 'Amr b. 'Awf: I, along with Salman, I iudhayfah b.
al-Yaman, al-Nu'man b. Mugarrin al-Muzani, and six of the An-
qar, was in a 40-cubit [section of the trench]. We dug beneath

   48. Abu Bakr Muhammad b. Bashshir b.'Uthman b . Dawud al 'Abdi (b. 567/783
in al-Balrah, died 252/866) was considered a reliable transmitter of traditions. See
Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 70-711 GAS, I, 113-14.

   49. For Muhammad b. Khalid, who was called Ibn 'Athmah after his mother
'Athmah, see Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 142-43.

   50. Kathir b. 'Abdallah b. 'Amr b. 'Awf al-Yashkurl al-Muzani (died between
150/767 and 160/777 in Medina) was generally considered a weak transmitter of
laadith. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 421-23.

  51. 'Abdallah b. 'Amr b. 'Awf b. Zayd al-Muzani was a transmitter of badith
generally considered sound . See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 339-40.

  52. 'Amr b. 'Awf al-Anoari was present at the Battle of Badr and died during the
caliphate of 'Umar. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 85-86.

  53, Years were named after their most prominent events : hence Year of the
Hijrah and Year of the Allzab (the parties, confederates, or allied clans that at-
tacked Medina in this year ). Sura 33 of the Qur'an, Surat al-A1,izdb, is named for
them.

  54. The Band HArithah, a clan of the al-Aws, had land on the northeast side of
Medina. See Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 152 (map)s Hamidullah, Battlefields,
26, 32 (photograph of a mosque on the site). -

  55. Al-Madhid was a stronghold belonging to the Bami Haram of the Band
Salimah clan of al-Khazraj (see al -Samhudi, Khula$at al-wafd', 603). It lay to the
west of Mt. Sal' (see map in Hamidullah, Battlefields, 31).

   56. I.e ., he divided the work so that ten men were responsible for digging each
4o-cubit section (appro)dmately 6o feet).

  57. The Emigrants (al-muhdiiron) were the followers of Muhammad who had
migrated from Mecca to Medina with him. See E12, s.v. Muhajirun.

  58. The Anger ("helpers ") were Muslims from Medina, primarily from the tribes
of al-Aws and al-Khazraj. See E12, s.v. Anger.

  59. Arabic ahl al-bayt designates the Prophet's household.

[[p 36]]
The Events of the Year 5 11

Dhubab60 until we reached al-Nada.61 Then God caused a white                            [1 468
rock to emerge from the bottom of the trench, a flint that broke
our iron implements and exhausted us. So we said, "Salman, go up
to the Messenger of God and inform him about this rock-either
that we may turn aside from it, for the place to turn aside is near,
or that he may give us his order about it-for we do not wish to
deviate from his plan."

   Salman climbed out and went to the Messenger of God, who
was pitching a Turkish-style round tent62 nearby, and said: "0
Messenger of God, who are as dear to us as father and mother, a
white rock came out of the trench, a flint that broke our iron
implements and exhausted us, so that we can make no impression
small or great on it. Give us your order concerning it, for we do not
wish to deviate from your plan." The Messenger of God went
down into the trench with Salman, and we nine climbed up onto
its side. The Messenger of God took the pickaxe from Salman and
struck the rock a blow that cracked it, and a flash of lightning shot
out, illuminating everything between the two tracts of black
stones-that is, Medina 's two tracts of black stones63-like a
lamp inside a dark room. The Messenger of God shouted, "God is
greatest! "-a shout of victory-and the Muslims, too, shouted,
"God is greatest!" Then the Messenger of God struck it again and
cracked it, and a flash of lightning shot out, illuminating every-
thing between Medina's two tracts of black stones -like a lamp
inside a dark room. The Messenger of God shouted, "God is
greatest !"-a shout of victory-and the Muslims, too, shouted,
"God is greatest!" Then the Messenger of God struck it a third
time and broke it, and a flash of lightning shot out, illuminating

   6o. Dhubab (or Dhubab) was located to the north of Mt. Sal'. According to al-
Samhudi, Khula$at al-wafa', 552, it became the site of the Mosque of the Banner.
See Hamidullah, Battlefields, 32, for a photograph of the site.

  6,. The reading al-Nada is uncertain see the apparatus of ed. Leiden.
   62. As noted in ed. Leiden , Glossarium, P. CL, "Turkish -style round tent" (qub-

bah turkiyyah) is an apparent anachronism, at least as regards the adjective "Turk-

ish." Note, however, that the Prophet 's tent at the time of the conquest of Mecca

(p. 177, below) is called a qubbah , which normally implies a round tent. In any

case, that this is not a very great anachronism is shown by a report from A.H. 16 (al-
Tabari, I, 2444) indicating that the Arab conquereis of al-Mada 'in found qibab
turkiyyah "Turkish round tents" containing baskets of treasure.

  63. Medina is surrounded by black lava flows called laarrah or labah.

[[p 37]]
12 The Victory of Islam

[1469]  everything between Medina's two tracts of black stones-like a
        lamp inside a dark room. The Messenger of God shouted, "God is
        greatest!"-a shout of victory-and the Muslims, too, shouted,.
        "God is greatest !" Then he took Salman's hand and climbed out.
        Salman said: "You are as dear to me as father and mother, Mes-
        senger of God! I have seen something I never saw before." The
        Messenger of God turned to the men and asked, "Did you see what
        Salman says?" They said : "Yes, Messenger of God, you who are as
        dear to us as father and mother; we saw you strike and lightning
        come out like waves. We saw you shout 'God is greatest,' and so
        we shouted 'God is greatest .' We saw nothing else." "You have
        spoken truly," he said. "I struck my first blow, and what you saw
        flashed out, so that the palaces of al-I;iirah64 and al-Mada'in65 of

        Kiss lit up for me from it as if they were dogs' teeth, and Gabriel
        informed me that my nation would be victorious over them. Then
        I struck my second blow, and what you saw flashed out, so that
        the palaces of the pale men in the land of the Byzantine lit up for
        me from it as if they were dogs' teeth , and Gabriel informed me
        that my nation would be victorious over them. Then I struck my
        third blow, and what you saw flashed out, so that the palaces of
        $an'a'66 lit up for me from it as if they were dogs ' teeth, and
        Gabriel informed me that my nation would be victorious over
        them, [saying]: "Rejoice; victory shall come to them! Rejoice; vic-
        tory shall come to them! Rejoice; victory shall come to them!" So
        the Muslims rejoiced and said: "Praise be to God! The promise of
        One who is true and faithful! He has promised us victory after
        tribulation." So when the allied clans came up, the believers said:
        "This is what God and His Messenger promised us. God and His
        Messenger have spoken truly." And it only increased them in faith
        and surrender.67 But the hypocrites said: "Do you not wonder? He

          64. Al-Hirah, on the west bank of the Euphrates, southeast of the present Najaf
        in Iraq, was the capital of the pre -Islamic Arab vassal state of the Sasanian empire
        governed by the Banu Lakhm (Lakhmids). See E12, a.v. al-Hira.

          65. Al-Mada'in (Ctesiphon ), on the Tigris about 20 miles south of the site of
        later Baghdad, was the winter capital of the Sasanian emperors , who In Arabic are
        normally given the title Mara (from Persian Khuaraw, the name of several rulers in
        the dynasty). See E12, s.v. al-Mada'in.

           66. At this time $an'a' in Yemen was ruled by a Persian governor . One of the
        palaces was presumably the famous Ghumdan, said to have been twenty stories

        tall. See Ell, s.v. $an'a.

          67. Cf. Qur'an 33:22.

[[p 38]]
The Events of the Year 5 13

discourses to you, raises your hopes, and promises you false                           [14701
things. He tells you that from Yathrib68 he can see the palaces of
al-Hirah and al-Mada'in of Kisra and that they will be conquered

by you-and this while you are digging the trench and cannot go
forth!" So the following [verse of the] Qur'an was revealed: "And
when the hypocrites and those in whose hearts is sickness were
saying, 'God and His Messenger promised us naught but
delusion.""69

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
someone not to be doubted-Abu Hurayrah:70 When these cities
were conquered in the time of'Umar,71'Uthman,72 and afterward,
[Abu Hurayrah] used to say, "Conquer for yourselves whatever
seems good to you, for, by the one who holds Abu Hurayrah's soul
in His hand, you have conquered no city, neither shall you con-
quer any until the Day of Resurrection, but that Muhammad was
given its keys beforehand."

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Islhaq, who said: The
people of the trench were 3,000.

  When the Messenger of God had finished the trench, Quraysh
came and encamped where the stream beds meet at Rumah,
between al-Juruf and al-Ghabah,73 with io,ooo of their Aha-
bish74 and those of the Banu Kinanah and people of Tihamah75

   68. Yathrib was the old name of Medina.
   69. Qur'an 33:12.
   70. Abu Hurayrah, a companion of the Prophet, is said to have acquired his

nickname (" the man with the kitten ") because he kept a kitten to play with while

he herded his goats . He came to Medina in A.H. 7 . Later he became noted as a

prolific narrator of traditions . See E12, as. Abu Hurayra.

   71. 'Umar b . al-Khattab ruled as caliph from 13/634 to 23/644.

   72. 'Uthman b. 'Affan ruled as caliph from 23/644 to 35/656.
   73. IH, III, 219 reads "Zaghabah," for al-Ghabah. Al-Tabari's reading of al-
Ghibah is noted by Yiqut, Mu' jam al-bulddn, s.v. Zaghabah . Yaqut implies that al.
Tabari chose his reading because he believed a place called "Zaghabah" was un-
known, Yaqut then cites hadith to show that such a place was known . Al-Ghabah
was eight miles north of Medina. See Yaqut, Mu'jam al-buldan, s.v.j Hamidullah,
Battlefields, 31 (map).
  74. AllAbish (plural of uhbush or uhbushah) means "companies or bodies of men
not all of one tribe ." They consisted of a number of small clans or subtribes allied
with Quraysh. The most important was Banu al -II Iarith b . 'Abd Manat b. Kinanah,
others were al-Mu*laliq (of Khuza 'ah) and al-Hun (of Khuzaymah, with subdivi-
sions 'Aeal and al -Qarah). The thesis of Henri Lammens that they were Abyssinian
slave mercenaries is mistaken . Cf. E12, s.v. Iiabash, W. Montgomery Watt,
Muhammad at Mecca, 153-56; Muhammad at Medina, 81-83.
  75. Tihamah is the Red Sea coastal plain of the Arabian peninsula.

[[p 39]]
14 The Victory of Islam

(1471]  who followed them. Ghalafan and the people of Najd who fol-
        lowed them came and encamped at Dhanab Nagama, beside
        Uliud.76 The Messenger of God and the Muslims went out and set
        their backs toward Sal'77 with 3,000 of the Muslims. There he
        pitched his camp, with the trench between him and the enemy.

        He commanded that the children and women should be taken up

        into the strongholds.78
          The enemy of God, I3uyayy b. Akhtab, went out and came to

        Ka'b b. Asad al-QuraZi, who was the possessor of the treaty and
        covenant of the Band Qurayzah.79 Ka'b had made a truce with the
        Messenger of God for his people, making a contract and covenant-
        ing with him on it. When Ka'b heard Huyayy b. Akhtab, he shut
        his fortress in his face. I3uyayy asked to be allowed in, but Ka'b
        refused to open to him. I3uyayy called to him, "Ka'b, open to me!"
        "Woe to you, I luyayy," answered Ka'b, "you are a man who brings
        bad luck! I have made a treaty with Muhammad and will not break
        the pact that exists between me and him. I have seen nothing but
        faithfulness and truth on his part." Huyayy said: "Woe to you!
        Open to me, and I will speak to you!" "I will not do it," said Ka'b.
        Iluyayy said, "By God, you have shut me out only on account of
        your gruel,s° lest I should eat any of it with you." This angered the
        man, so that he opened to him. I iuyayy said: "Woe to you, Ka'b! I
        have brought you everlasting might and an overflowing sea. I have
        brought you Quraysh, with their leaders and chiefs, and have

        caused them to encamp where the stream beds meet at Rdmah,

          76. Ubud, where a battle between the Muslims and Meccans had taken place in
        Shawwal 3 A.H. (March 6251, is about a mile north of Medina . See Yggdt, Mu'fam
        al-bulddn, s.v., Hamidullah, Battlefields, 22, 31 (maps).

          77. Sal' was a hill in the central area of Medina . See Yaqut, Mu'iam al-buldan,
        s.v., Hamidullah, Battlefields, 31 (map).

           78. "Medina was at first not a compact town, but a collection of scattered

        settlements, surrounded by groves of date palms and cultivated fields . For defense,
        therefore, a large number of forts or strongholds (dtdm, sing. utum, also didm, sing.

        ujum ) had been constructed , perhaps 20o in all. In these the local inhabitants took
        refuge in times of danger." M. Watt in E12, s.v. al-Madina , p. 994.

          79. The Band Qurayzah were one of the three main Jewish tribes of Medina,

        with lands toward the southeast of the oasis , see E12, s.v. ICurayTa. On this treaty,
        cf. W, 454-56, which implies that it was a document written by Muhammad and
        that Huyayy, having persuaded Ka'b to go over to his side, tore it up.

          8o. Iashishah was a gruel of coarsely ground wheat or barley , sometimes with
        the addition of dates and meat. See Lane, Lexicon, II, 425.

[[p 40]]
The Events of the Year 5 15

and Ghalafan, with their leaders and chiefs, and have caused them                       114721
to encamp at Dhanab Nagama beside Uhud. They have made a
treaty and covenant with me not to withdraw until they root out
Muhammad and those who are with him." Ka'b b. Asad said to
him: "By God, you have brought me everlasting humiliation-a
cloud that has already shed its water, that thunders and lightens

but has nothing in it. Woe to you! Leave me to continue with
Muhammad as I am now, for I have seen nothing from Muham-
mad except truth and faithfulness." But Huyayy kept wheedlingsl
Ka'b until he yielded to him, Huyayy having given him a promise
and oath by God that "if Quraysh and Ghalafan retreat without
having killed Muhammad, I will enter your fortress with you, so
that whatever happens to you shall happen to me." So Ka'b b. Asad
broke his treaty and renounced the bond that had existed between
him and the Messenger of God.

  When the news reached the Messenger of God and the Muslims,
the Messenger of God sent out Sa'd b. Mu'adh b. al-Nu'man b.
Imru' al-Qays (one of the Banu 'Abd al-Ashhal who at that time
was the chief of al-Aws), Sa'd b. 'Ubadah b. Dulaym (one of the
Banu Sa'idah b. Ka'b b. al-Khazraj who at that time was the chief of
al-Khazraj82), and with them 'Abdallah b. Rawahah63 (a member
of the Banu al-Harith b. al-Khazraj) and Khawwat b. Jubayr (a
member of the Banu 'Amr b. 'Awf), and said: "Go and see whether
what has reached us about these men is true or not. If it is true,
speak to me in words that we can understand but that will be
unintelligible to others, and do not break the strength of the peo-
ple. But, if these men remain loyal to the pact between us and
them, announce it to the people."

  So they went out and came to them. They found them engaged
in the worst of what had been reported about them. They slan-

   81. Literally, "kept twisting (the fur of! the upper part and the fore part of the
hump"j the metaphor is of a refractory camel that must be massaged and coaxed
before it will allow the nose rein to be attached. See Lane, Lexicon, VI, s.v. gharib.

  82. Al-Aws and al-Khazraj were the two most important Arab tribes of Medina
(as opposed to the Jews); see Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 15 r if. (genealogical
table, p. 1541; and EP, s. vv. Sa d b. Mu'adh, Said b. Ubada.

  83. 'Abdallah b. Rawahah was a leader of his clan and a poet . He was one of the
Medinans who pledged allegiance to Muhammad at the Second Pledge of 'Agabah,
a year before the Hijrah. He fought at Badr, Uhud, and the Trench and was killed at
Mu'tah in A.H. 8. See E12, s.v. 'Abd Allah b. Rawahaj GAS, II, 292-93.

[[p 41]]
z6 The Victory of Islam

(14731  dered the Messenger of God and said, "There is no treaty between
        us and Muhammad and no covenant." Sad b. Ubadah reviled
        them, and they reviled him-Sa'd was a man with a sharp temper.
        So Sa'd b. Mu'adh said to him, "Stop reviling them, for the dis-

        agreement between us and them is too serious for an exchange of

        taunts." The two Sa'ds and the men with them went back to the
        Messenger of God and, having greeted him, said, "'Ad al and al-

        Qarah!" [They meant that it was( like the treachery of 'AOal and
        al-Qarah to the companions of the Messenger of God who were
        (betrayed) at al-Raft', Khubayb b. 'Ad! and his companions.84 The
        Messenger of God said: "God is greatest! Rejoice, people of the
        Muslims!"

          Soon the trial became great, and fear intensified. Their foe came
        at them from above them and below them, so that the believers
        were beset with fears of all kinds.85 The hypocrisy of some of the
        hypocrites became evident. Mu'attib b. Qushayr, a member of the
        Banu 'Amr b. 'Awf, said, "Muhammad was promising us that we
        should eat up the treasures of Kisra and Caesar, and now none of
        us can go out to relieve himself! " Aws b. Qay;i, one of the Banu
        Harithah b. al-Harith, said, "Messenger of God, our houses lie
        exposed to the enemy"86-he had been put up to this by certain

          84. For the story of how a group of men from the clans of 'A4a1 and al-Qarah

        came to Mubammad in Medina in A.H. 4 and asked for men to instruct them in
        Islam and how, after Mubammad had sent six men back with them (including
        Khubayb b. 'Adi), they betrayed the six to the pro-Meccan Libyan subtribe of
        Hudhayl (which had a vendetta against the Muslims) at the watering place of al-
        Raft', see al-Tabari, I, 1431 -37) Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 33-34, and EP, s.v.
        Libyan. For an account of Mubammad's eventual retaliation, see p. 42 (I, 15011,

        below.
          85. The sentence is virtually a paraphrase of Qur 'an 33:10. According to at.

        Tabarl, Jamf al-bayan, ad be. (XXI, 71 ), those who came "from above " refers to
        'Uyaynah b. IIi$n, who came from the highlands of Najd, and those who came
        "from below " refers to Quraysh from Mecca. The final phrase in al-Tabarl, batta
        ;anna al-mu'minuna kulla ,tannin, parallels the Qur'anic wa-to;unnuna billahi
        al-;uniina, generally translated as if the verb;anna meant "thinking unsubstanti-
        ated thoughts, making vain suppositions." But with the omission of billahi, "con-
        cerning God," it seems more natural to translate according to another meaning of
        the idiom ;ann a1-;unun. Cf. Dozy, Supplement, ll, 86: "s'abandonnerauxpensees
        les plus douloureuses, se dit en parlant de celui qui eat rempli de crainte."

           86. Cf. Qur'an 33:13.

[[p 42]]
The Events of the Year 5 17

chiefs of his tribe-"therefore give us leave, and let us return to                11 474]
our dwelling place, for it lies outside Medina."

   The Messenger of God and the polytheists87 stayed in their
positions for over twenty nights-nearly a month-with no war-
fare between the troops, except for the shooting of arrows and the
siege.

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
'Agim b. 'Umar b. Qatadah and Muhammad b. Muslim b. Shihab
al-Zuhri:88 When the trial became great for the people, the Mes-
senger of God sent to 'Uyaynah b. Hi^n and al-Harith b. 'Awf b.
Abi Harithah al-Murri, the two leaders of Ghatafan, and offered
them a third of the date harvest of Medina on condition that they
and their followers go back, leaving the Messenger of God and his
companions . The truce between the two sides progressed to the
point of drawing up a written document , but there was no wit-
nessing or firm determination to make peace ; it was only a matter
of maneuvering. So the two of them acted as they did. When the
Messenger of God was about to act , he sent to Sa'd b . Mu'adh and
Sa'd b. 'Ubadah, gave them an account, and asked their advice.
The two said, "Messenger of God, is it something you would like
us to do, or is it something God has commanded you to do that we
must do, or is it something you are doing for us? " He answered:
"Indeed, it is for you. By God, I am doing it only because I saw that
the Arabs had shot at you from a single bow89 and had dogged you
from every side; so I wanted somehow to avert their furor from
you for a time." Sad b. Mu'adh said: "Messenger of God, we and
these people used to be polytheists , associating [other divinities]
with God and worshiping idols, and we neither worshiped God nor
knew him; and they did not hope to eat a single date of ours except
in hospitality or by buying. Now that God has conferred Islam on
us, guided us to it, and strengthened us with your presence, shall
we give them our wealth? We have no need for this! By God, we

  87. Mushrikan, those who associate other divinities with Allah, is the regular
Qur'Anic term for pagans.

   88. Parallel with more details : W, 477-80.
  89. I.e., were unanimous against you. See Lane, Lexicon, VII, 2575 , for the
proverb.

[[p 43]]
18 The Victory of Islam

(14751  will offer them only the sword, until God judge between us and
(1476)  them." "As you wish," said the Messenger of God. So Sa'd took

        the sheet and erased the writing on it. Then he said, "Let them do

        their utmost against us."
          The Messenger of God and the Muslims remained besieged by

        their enemy. There was no fighting between them, except that
        some horsemen of Quraysh-among them were 'Amr b. 'Abd
        Wudd b. Abi Qays ( a member of the Banu 'Amir b. Lu'ayy),
        'Ikrimah b. Abi Jahi and Hubayrah b. Abi Wahb (both from
        Makhzum), Nawfal b. 'Abdallah, and Direr b. al-Khallab b. Mirdas
        (a member of the Banu Mul$rib b. Fihr) clad themselves for bat-
        tle.90 They rode out on their horses and passed by the Banu
        Kinanah and said: "Get ready for warfare, Banu Kinanah. Today

        you shall know who are the real horsemen." Then they advanced

        toward the trench and halted by it. When they saw it, they said,
        "By God, this is a stratagem that the Arabs have never employed."
        They headed to a place where the trench was narrow and struck
        their horses, so that they rushed through it and carried them
        round onto the marshy ground between the trench and Sal'. 'Ali b.
        Abi Talib went out with a band of Muslims and blocked the gap
        through which they had driven their horses. The horsemen rode at

        a fast pace toward them. 'Amr b. 'Abd Wudd had fought at the
        Battle of Badr91 until he was immobilized by wounds , and there-
        fore he had not been present at Uliud. When the Battle of the
        Trench took place, he went forth wearing a mark, so that his
        position would be visible . When he and his horsemen drew to a
        halt,92 'Ali said to him, "'Amr, you used to swear to God that if a
        man of Quraysh ever summoned you to one of two alternatives,
        you would accept one of them from him." "Yes," he replied. 'Ali b.
        Abi Talib said, "I summon you to God, to His Messenger, and to
        Islam." He replied, "I have no need of this." So 'All said, "Then I
        summon you to fight." 'Amr said: "Why, 0 son of my brother? By

        God, I do not want to kill you." 'All said, "But I, by God, want to

        kill you." 'Amr then became very angry. He jumped from his

          go. Parallel with many more details: W, 470-72.
          91. At the Battle of Badr in 2/642, a Muslim force from Medina defeated it large

        Meccan force; see al-Tabari, I, 1282-338.
          92. IH, III, 225, adds: "He said, 'Who will come out for single combat? "All b. Abi

        Talib came out to him."

[[p 44]]
The Events of the Year 5 I q

horse, hamstrung it93 (or he struck it on its face), and advanced
toward'All. The two fought in single combat With each other, and
'Ali killed 'Amr. His horsemen went away in a rout and rushed
through the trench in flight. Two men were killed along with
'Amr: Munabbih b. 'Uthman b. 'Ubayd b. al-Sabbaq b. 'Abd al-Dar
(he was hit by an arrow and died of it in Me ca) and Nawfal b.
'Abdallah b. al-Mughirah of the Banu Makhzu . Nawfal plunged
into the trench and became trapped in it. They pelted him with
stones. He said, "People of the Arabs, a slaym better than this!"
So 'Ali went down and killed him. The Musl ms took his body.

They asked the Messenger of God to sell them his body. The
Messenger of God said: "We have no need for his body or its price.
Do with it as you like." So he left them to do as they pleased with
it.

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Mu ammad b. Ishaq-
Abu Layla 'Abdallah b. Sahl b. 'Abd al-Raliman b. Sahl al-Angarz94
(a member of the Banu Harithah): At the time of the Battle of the
Trench, 'A'ishah, the Mother of the Faithful,95' was in the fortress
of the Band I3arithah, one of Medina's strongest fortresses, and the
mother of Sa'd b. Mu'adh was there with her.

   According to 'A'ishah: That was before the' curtain96 was im-
posed on us. Sa'd ]b. Mu'adh] passed by wearing a coat of mail

   93. A horse was hamstrung when its rider resolved not to attempt escape but to
fight to the death.

   94. His exact dates are unknown . His name is also given; as Abu Layla b. 'Abdal-
lah b. 'Abd al-Rabman b. Sahl al-An$ari, and he is said to have been a reliable
transmitter. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, Xli, 215.

   95. On the title "Mother of the Faithful " conferred on Muhammad's wives, see
Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 286-87.

   96. Arabic: hijab, "anything that veils, conceals, hides, covers, or protects"
(Lane, Lexicon, II, 516). Originally, the word designated th curtain that was setup
in Muhammad's house to separate his wives from the iew of unrelated male
visitors; in later usage it was applied to a veil or article of 4lothing concealing any
Muslim woman's features and thereby protecting her from the desire of men. The
institution of such a curtain in Muhammad 's house is usually dated to this year,
A.H. 5, and sometimes connected with the behavior of certain guests at the wed-
ding of the Prophet and Zaynab bt. Jabsh. Qur'an 33:53 entnciates the injunction:
"0 believers, enter not the houses of the Prophet, except eave is given you for a
meal, without watching for its hour . But when you are i ivited, then enter; and
when you have had the meal, disperse, neither lingering for idle talk; that is hurtful
to the Prophet, and he is ashamed before you, but God is not ashamed before the
truth. And when you ask his wives for any object , ask them from behind a curtain
(i ijab); that is cleaner for your hearts and theirs." 'A'ishah's account of the so-

[[p 45]]
20 The Victory of Islam

[1477]  tucked up so that his entire forearm was exposed , with his lance in
        his hand. He was running about with it and reciting:

        Wait a little, and Hamal shall be present at the fray:
             There is no harm in death when one 's time is come.97

        His mother said to him, "Hurry up, son; by God, you are late!"
             According to 'A'ishah: I said to her, "Umm Sa'd,98 I wish

        Sa'd's coat of mail were ampler than it is .,, I feared for him where
        the arrow struck him. Sa'd b. Mu'adh was shot with an arrow, and
        the median vein of his arm was cut.

          According to Ibn I3umayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
        'Asim b. 'Umar b. Qatadah: The arrow was shot by Hibban b. Qays
        b. al-'Arigah (one of the Banu 'Amir b. Lu'ayy). When he hit Sa'd,
        Iiibban said: "Take that! I am Ibn al-'Ariqah." Sa'd replied: "God
        make your face sweat99 in hellfire! 0 God, if Thou hast saved any
        portion of the warfare with Quraysh, save me for it; for there are
        no men against whom I would rather strive than men who hurt
        Thy Messenger, called him a liar, and cast him out. 0 God, if Thou
        hast set warfare between us and them, grant me martyrdom, and
        do not let me die until Thou make my eye see its desire upon the
        Banu Qurayph."

           According to Sufyan b. Waki"00-Muhammad b. Bishr'01-
        Muhammad b. 'Amr102-his father ['Amr b. 'Algamah]103-

        called "Affair of the Lie" in A. H. 6 (p. 59, below ) implies that by that date seclusion
        of the Prophet's wives was in force. On the development of regulations concerning
        the modest behavior expected from Mubammad's wives , see Watt, Muhammad at
        Medina, 284-87, E12, s.v. IIidjab) and Stowasser, Women in the Qur'an, Traditions,
        and Interpretation, 90-94, 127-31.

          97. The verse was proverbial. Commentators give various identifications for
        I:Iamal (whose name sometimes appears as Jamal).

          98. I.e., "Mother (umml of Sa'd," using the form of address (kunyah) that names
        a person after his or her first son.

           99. 'Arraqa ("make sweat ") is a pun on the name al-'Arigah.
           loo. Sufyan b. Waki' b. al-Jarrah al-Kufi died in 247/861, see Ibn Halar, Tahdhib,

        IV, 123-24.
           ioi. Muhammad b. Bishr b. al-Farafiyah b. al-Mukhtar , a KtUfan scholar, died in

        203/818 . See In Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 73-74•
           102. Muhammad b. 'Amr b. 'Algamah b. Wagga$ al-Laythi died in 144/761-62

        or 145 /762-63. See Ibn I Iajar, Tahdhib, IX, 375-77.
           io3. For 'Amr b. 'Algamah b. Waggay al-Laythi of Medina (exact dates not

        known ), see Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 79-80.

[[p 46]]
The Events of the Year S 21

'A1gamah1o4-'A'ishah, who said: I went out at the time of the                        [1478]
Battle of the Trench following the footsteps of the people. Sud-                     [1479]
denly, as I was walking, I heard footsteps on the ground behind
me. Turning around, I saw Sa'd; so I sat down on the ground. With
him, carrying his shield, was his brother 's son, al-Irarith b. Aws
(who, according to Muhammad b. 'Amr, had been present at Badr
with the Messenger of God). Sa'd was wearing an iron coat of mail,
but the extremities of his limbs stuck out of it-he was one of the
biggest and tallest of men. I feared for Sa`d's limbs. He passed by
me reciting: 105

Wait a little, and I iamal shall reach the fray:
     How fair is death when one's time is come!

After he passed me I stood up and hurried into a walled garden
where there were a group of Muslims. Among them were 'Umar b.
al-Khallab and a man wearing his tasbighah (according to
Muhammad [b. Hisham], a tasbighah is a mighfarl06], so that only
his eyes could be seen. 'Umar said: "You are very brave! Why have
you come? How can you tell?-perhaps there may be a retreat or
trouble." By God, he kept scolding me until I wished the earth
would split open for me to enter it. Then the man threw back the
tasbighah and revealed his face. It was Talhah,107 and he said [to
'Umar]: "You have talked too much! What flight and what retreat,
except to God?" Sa'd b. Mu'adh was shot with an arrow that day by
a man named Ibn al-'Ariqah, who said: "Take that! I am Ibn
al-'Arigah." Sa'd said, "God make your face sweat in hellfire1108
He had hit his median vein and cut it. (According to Muhammad
b. 'Amr: Some have said that whenever a person's median vein is

   104. Ed. Cairo, index, identifies him as 'Algamah b. Qays al-Nakha'i. He was

supposedly ninety years old when he died sometime between 61 /68o and 63/683.
See Ibn 11ajar, Tahdhib, 276-78. However, the rest of the isnad points to'Algamah
b. Waggag al-Laythi. See note 153, below.

   ro5. Literally, "reciting verse in rajaz meter."
   rob. I.e., "a portion of the mail of the coat of mail , that is conjoined to the
helmet, and protects the neck"-Lane, Lexicon, IV, 1299.
   107. For a biography ofTalhah b . 'Ubaydallah, a member of the Quraysh clan of
Band Taym b. Murrah , who accompanied Muhammad on the Hijrah and
distinguished himself at the Battle of Ubud, see El', s.v. Talba. The incident re-
veals '1'albah's coolness toward 'Umar and his closeness to 'A'ishah, elements that

would be important in his subsequent career.
   rob. See note 99, above.

[[p 47]]
22 The Victory of Islam

1148o]  cut, it keeps oozing blood until the person dies . ) Sa'd said, "0 God,
        do not let me die until Thou make my eye see its desire upon the
        Banu QurayZah"-in the Time of Ignorancel09 they had been his
        confederates and clients.

          According to In Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-

        someone not to be doubted-'Ubaydallah b. Ka'b b. Malik, who
        used to say: No one hit Sa'd with an arrow that day but Abu
        Usamah al-Jushami, a confederate of the Banu Makhzum. God

        knows best what actually happened.
          According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Mu4ammad b. Is4aq-

        Yahya b. 'Abbad b. 'Abdallah b. al-Zubayrllo-his father, 'Abbad,
        who said:" $afiyyah112 bt. 'Abd al-Muttalib was in Fari', the

        fortress of Hassan b. Thabit.113
          According to $afiyyah, who said: Hassan was with us there with

        the women and children. A man from the Jews passed by us and

        began to circle the fortress. The Banu Quray;ah had gone to war
        and had broken their pact with the Messenger of God. There was
        no one between us and them to defend us-the Messenger of God
        and the Muslims, being face to face with the enemy, could not
        leave them to come back to us when anyone came at us. So I said:
        "Hassan, this Jew, as you see, is circling the fortress. By God, I fear
        he will point out our exposed places to the Jews who are to our rear
        while the Messenger of God and his companions are too busy to
        attend to us. So go down to him and kill him." He replied: "God
        forgive you, daughter of 'Abd al-Muttalib! You know I am not the
        man to do it." When he said that to me and I saw that nothing
        could be expected from him, I girded myself, took a club, and,

        having gone down from the fortress to the man, I struck him with

           ro9. Arabic, "in the jahiliyyah," the "time of ignorance" before Islam. See E12,
        s.v. jjahiliyya.

           i ro. Yahya b. 'Abbad b. 'Abdallah b. al-Zubayr b. al-'Awwim is said to have died
        at the age of thirty-six, but no exact date is given . See Ibn 11ajar, Tahdhib, XI, 234-

        35;11. On 'Abbad b. 'Abdallah b. al-Zubayr b. al•'Awwam, see Ibn Hajar , Tahdhfb,
        V, 98. Parallels: IH, III, 228 (tr. Guillaume, 458 ; Aghdni, N, 15 (ed. Cairo, IV, 1378).

           r 12. Mubammad's paternal aunt; the daughter of 'Abd al-Muttalib's last mar-
        riage, she was slightly younger than Muhammad.

           113. Hassan b. Thabit of the tribe of al-Khazraj in Medina was the most promi-
        nent of the poets supporting Muhammad. See E12, s.v.13assan b. Thabit; GAS, II,

        289-92.

[[p 48]]
The Events of the Year 5 23

the club until I killed him. When I had finished with him, I re-                       [1481]
turned to the fortress and said: "Hassan, go down to him and strip
him"-only his being a man kept me from stripping him. Hassan
replied, "I have no need for his spoils, daughter of 'Abd al-
Muttalib."II4

   According to Ibn Ishaq: The Messenger of God and his compan-
ions continued in the fear and distress that God has described [in
the Qur'an], because their enemies had leagued together against
them and had come at them "from above them and below
them."' Is Then Nu'aym b. Masud b. 'Amin b. Unayf b. Tha'labah

b. Qunfudh b. Hilal b. Khalawah b. Ashja' b. Rayth b. Ghatafan
came to the Messenger of God and said, "I have become a Muslim,
but my tribesmen do not know of my Islam; so command me
whatever you will." The Messenger of God said to him: "You are
only one man among us. Make them abandon [each other], if you
can, so that they leave us; for war is deception."

   Nu'aym b. Masud therefore set out and came to the Banu
QuraYzah-he had been their drinking companion in the Time of
Ignorance-and said to them, "Band Qurayzah, you know my
affection for you and the special tie between myself and you."
"Yes," they said, "you are not a person whom we doubt." He said
to them: "Quraysh and Ghatafan have come to make war on
Muhammad, and you have backed them against him. The position
of Quraysh and Ghatafan is not like yours. The land is your land.
Your wealth, your children, and your women are in it; you cannot
move from it to another. The wealth, children, women, and land
of Quraysh and Ghatafan are elsewhere; so they are not in a posi-
tion like yours. If they see an opportunity and booty, they will
take it; if it turns out otherwise, they will return to their lands and

   114. The editor of ed. Cairo adds the following note: "According to al-Suhayli,
people infer from this tradition that Hassan was very cowardly. One scholar
disputes this and denies it on the ground that the tradition has a broken chain of

transmission. He says that if it were true, Hassan would have been mocked for it:
for he used to compose satirical verses against such poets as Iairar and Ibn al-
Ziba'ra, and they would engage in polemics and reply to him; yet no one ever
berated him for cowardice or branded him a coward . This indicates the weakness of
Ibn Ishiq's tradition. If the tradition is true, perhaps he was sick that day with an

illness that prevented him from being present at the fighting."

   Irs. See note 85, above.

[[p 49]]
24  The Victory of Islam

           leave you exposed to this man in your land, and you will have no
           strength to deal with him if he is left to deal with you alone. So do
           not fight on the side of the men [of Quraysh and Ghalafan], until
           you take from them hostages from their nobles, to be in your
           hands as surety for you that they will fight Muhammad with you
           until you have fought it out with him." They said, "You have
           given good counsel and advice."

             Nu'aym then set out and came to Quraysh. He said to Abu
           Sufyan b. Harb and the men of Quraysh who were with him:
           "People of Quraysh, you know my affection for you and how I
           have separated from Muhammad. Word has come to me of some-
           thing that I consider it my duty to pass on to you as a matter of
           sincere advice; but keep to yourselves what I say." "We will," they
           said. "Then know," he said, "that the Jews have regretted what
           they did regarding relations between them and Muhammad. They
           have sent to him, saying: 'We regret what we have done. Will you
           be satisfied with us if we take nobles from the tribes of Quraysh
           and Ghalafan and give them to you, so that you can behead them?
          Then we will be on your side against any of them that remain.' He
          has sent them word saying yes . So if the Jews send to you asking
          for hostages from your men, do not give them a single one of your
           men.
114821 Then Nu'aym set out and came to Ghalafan. He said : "People of

           Ghalafan, you are my stock and my kin, the dearest of people to
          me. I think you have no doubts about me." "Truly spoken," they
           said. He said, "Keep to yourselves what I say." "We will," they
           said. Then he spoke to them as he had spoken to Quraysh, warning
           them as he had warned Quraysh.

             Thus, on a Sabbath eve in the month of Shawwal of the year 5,
          by the favor of God toward His Messenger, Abu Sufyan and the
           chiefs of Ghalafan sent to the Band Quray;ah 'Ikrimah b. AN Jahl
           with a group of men from Quraysh and Ghalafan. They said to the
           Band Quray;ah: "We are not in a place where one can stay. Our
           camels and horses have perished . Come out to do battle tomorrow
           morning, so that we can fight it out with Muhammad and finish
           matters between us and him." The Banu Quray;ah sent back word
          to Quraysh, saying: "Today is the Sabbath, a day on which we do
          no labor. One of us violated it once , and you know what befell

[[p 50]]
The Events of the Year 5 25

him. 1116 Moreover, we will not fight on your side until you give us                   [14831
some of your men as hostages to be in our hands as surety to us
until we fight it out with Muhammad; for we fear that if the
warfare tests your mettle and the fighting becomes difficult for
you, you will hurry back to your lands, leaving us with the man in
our land, and then we shall have no strength to deal with
Muhammad."

   When the messengers brought back to them what the Banu
QuraYZah had said, Quraysh and Ghalafin said, "You know, by
God, that what Nu'aym b. Masud told you is indeed true." So they
sent to the Banu Qurayzah, saying: "By God, we will not give you
a single one of our men. If you want to fight , come out and fight."
When the messengers reached them with this message, the Banu
Qurayzah said [to each other]: "What Nu'aym b. Masud told you
is indeed true! The men [of Quraysh and Ghalafanj only want to
fight. If they find an opportunity, they will take it; if not, they will
hurry back to their lands and leave you exposed to this man in
your lands." So they sent to Quraysh and Ghalafan , saying, "By
God, we will not fight on your side until you give us hostages."
Quraysh and Ghalafan refused. God caused them to abandon each
other. Then God sent against them in the bitter cold winter nights
a wind that began overturning their cooking pots and blowing
away their tents . When word of their disagreement and how God
had disrupted their unity reached the Messenger of God , he called
I iudhayfah b. al-Yaman and sent him to them by night to see what
the enemy was doing.

   According to Ibn Ilumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b . Isliaq-

Yazid b. Ziyad117-Muhammad b. Ka'b al-Qurazi, who said: A
young man of al-Kufah' 18 asked Iiudhayfah b. al-Yaman, "Abu

   116. See note 3127, below.
   117. Yazid b. Ziyad (dates unknown; the name is also given as Yazid b. Abi
Ziyad, or Yazid b..Ziyad b. Abi Ziyad) of Medina was a mawln of 'Abdallah b.
'Ayyash b . Abi Rabi'ah al-Makhzumi. See Ibn I1ajar, Tahdbib, XI, 328.

   118. The Muslim garrison city of al-KUfah was founded ca. 17 /638 in the caliph-
ate of 'Umar on the Euphrates near the older city of al -II Iirah; see E12, s.v. This
report portrays Iiudhayfah as being asked many years later, after the conquest of
Iraq and the settlement of al-KUfah, by a young Kufan (fats implies a man who has
recently reached military age) to recall the events of the battle.

[[p 51]]
26 The Victory of Islam

[14841  'Abdallah,119 you saw the Messenger of God and accompanied
        him?" "Yes, nephew," he replied. The young man asked, "How

        did things go with you?" "By God we toiled!" said Hudhayfah.
        The young man said, "By God, had we lived in his time, we would
        not have left him to walk on the ground; we would have carried
        him on our necks." Hudhayfah said: "Nephew, by God, I can see
        us with the Messenger of God at the trench. He prayed part of the
        night, then turned to us and said, 'Who is a man who will go up
        and see for us how the enemy is doing?'-the Messenger of God
        stipulated for him that he should come back-'and God shall
        cause him to enter paradise.1120 Not a man stood up. Again the
        Messenger of God prayed part of the night and turned to us and
        said the same words, but not one of us stood up. Again the Mes-
        senger of God prayed part of the night and turned to us and said,
        'Who is a man who will go up and see for us how the enemy is
        doing and then come back?'-the Messenger of God stipulated
        that he should return-'and I will ask God that he may be my
        companion in paradise.' But none of the men stood up, so intense
        were the fear, the hunger, and the cold. When no one stood up, the
        Messenger of God called me. I had no choice but to stand up when
        he called me. He said, 'I;iudhayfah, go and enter among the enemy,
        and see what they are doing, make no disturbance, and come back
        to us.'

           "So I went and entered among the enemy. The wind and God's
        hosts121 were taking their toll on them, allowing not a cooking
        pot, fire, or tent of theirs to stay put. Abu Sufyan b. Ijarb stood up
        and said, 'People of Quraysh, let every man see who is sitting next
        to him.' So I took hold of the hand of the man who was beside me. I
        asked who he was, and he gave his name. Then Abu Sufyan said:
        'People of Quraysh, by God you are not in a place where one can
        stay. Horses and camels have perished. The Banu Quray;ah have

           z z9. Abu 'Abdallah is I ludhayfah's kunyah ( nickname). Since the verbs in the

        question are in the second person plural, the young man must have meant some-
        thing like, "Did you and the people of your generation see the Messenger of God?"

           z 2o. I.e., he would be assured of paradise even though he had not died a martyr's

        death.
          r2r. God's hosts (junud Allah) apparently refers to angels (so according to al-

        Tabari, lami' al-baydn, XXII, 8z). Cf. Qur'an 33 :9, "0 you who believe! Remember
        God's favor to you when there came against you hosts, and We sent against them a
        great wind and hosts (junvdan) you could not see."

[[p 52]]
The Events of the Year 5 27

broken their promise to us. Words hateful to us have come to us                     [31 4851
from them, and you can see what we have suffered from this wind.
By God, no pot of ours stays put, no fire of ours keeps burning, and
no tent of ours holds together . So saddle up, for I am leaving!' Then
he went over to his camel, which was hobbled, seated himself on
it, and struck it. It jumped up with him , standing on three legs, for
its hobble was untied only after it stood up. Had it not been for the
injunction of the Messenger of God to me that I should not cause
any disturbance until I came to him-and I wanted to-I would
have killed him with an arrow."

  I iudhayfah continued: "I went back to the Messenger of God.
He was standing, praying in a woolen wrapper woven with a
camel-saddle pattern that belonged to one of his wives. When he
saw me, he sat me at his feet and threw the edge of the wrapper
over me. Then he bowed down and prostrated himself, but I
disturbed him. After he pronounced a greeting,'22 I told him the
news. Ghatafan heard what Quraysh had done, and they hastened

back to their lands."
  According to Ibn Ilumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq,

who said: The next morning, the Prophet of God left the trench
and went back to Medina with the Muslims, and they laid down
their weapons.

        The Expedition against the Banu Qurayzah123

According to Ibn lIumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Islhaq-Ibn
Shihab al-Zuhri: At noontime Gabriel,124 wearing a cloth-of-gold
turban, came to the Messenger of God on a mule with a brocade-
covered saddle. He said, "Have you laid down your arms, Mes-
senger of God?" "Yes," he replied. Gabriel said: "The angels have
not laid down their arms! I have just returned from pursuing the
enemy. God commands you, Muhammad, to march to the Band
Qurayzah. I, too, will betake myself to the Band Qurayzah.11125

  122. I.e., either after he pronounced the salutation to the guardian angels with
which Islamic prayers end or after he greeted Hudhayfah.

  123. Parallels : IH, III, 233-54 ( tr. Guillaume, 461-691, W, II, 496-531.

   124. Gabriel (fibril) was the angel who brought revelations to Mul ammad (cf.

Qur'an 2 :97). See EI2, s.v. Djabra il.
  125. IH, III, 233, and W, II, 497, add "and will shake them."

[[p 53]]
28 The Victory of Islam

             The Messenger of God commanded a crier to announce to the
          people that whoever would heed and obey should not pray the
          afternoon prayer until they were in [the territory of I the Banu
          QuraYZah. The Messenger of God sent 'Ali b. AbMTalib ahead with
          his banner to the Banu Qurayzah, and the people hastened to it.
          'Ali b. Abi TAlib marched and, having approached the fortresses,
          heard foul words from them about the Messenger of God. He went
          back and met the Messenger of God on the way and said, "Mes-
          senger of God, it would be better for you not to go near these most
          wicked men." "Why?" he asked, "I think you have heard them
          insult me." He said, "Yes, Messenger of God ." He said,126 "If they
          had seen me, they would not have said anything of the sort."

             When the Messenger of God had approached their fortresses, he
[14861 said: "You brothers of apes! 127 Has God shamed you and sent

           down his retribution on you?" They said, "Abu al-Qasim,128 you

          have never been one to act impetuously." 129
             Before reaching the Banu Qurayzah, the Messenger of God

          passed his companions at al-$awran. 130 "Has anyone passed you?"
           he asked. "Yes, Messenger of God," they replied. "Dihyah b.
           Khalifah al-Kalbi131 passed us on a white mule with a brocade-
           covered saddle." The Messenger of God said, "That was Gabriel,
           sent to the Banu QuraYZah to shake their fortresses and cast terror
           into their hearts."

             When the Messenger of God came to the Banu QuraYZah, he
           halted at one of their wells in a part of their territory called Bi'r

                126. Ed. Cairo omits "He said," making the next sentence a continuation of
             'All's words.

                127. The Qur'an contains references to how God punished a group of Jews who
             violated the Sabbath by changing them into apes cf. Qur'an 2:65, S:60, and 7:166.
             See pp. 24, above, and 30, below, where the Jews themselves allude to the legend.

                128. Abu al-Qasim (father of al-Qasim) was Muhammad's kunyah (a familiar
             name usually derived from the name of the bearer's first male child).

                  129. Arabic: ma kunta jahulan. On the meanings of the root j-h-1, which in-
               cludes both the ideas of ignorance and of violent , blind, or impulsive action, see
               Goldziher, Muslim Studies, I, 2o1-8; and Blachere et al., Dictionnaire arabe-
               franpais-anglais. I, 1845-46.

                130. According to al-Samhudi, Khulasat al-wafd', 575-76, the place was located
             at the farther end of al-Bag!', alongside the road to the Band Quray;ah.

                131. Dihyah b. Khalifah al-Kalbi was traditionally represented as a rich mer-
             chant of such beauty that the Angel Gabriel assumed his features. When he arrived
             in Medina, all the women were said to have come out to see him. See E12, s.v.
             Dihya.

[[p 54]]
The Events of the Year 5 29

 Ann&,132 and the men joined up with him. Some men came to him                      [1487]
 after the last evening prayer. They had not prayed the afternoon
prayer because of what the Messenger of God had said-that no
 one should pray the afternoon prayer until in [the territory of ] the
Banu Quray:;ah because of the warfare against them that was in-
cumbent on them. They refused to pray because the Prophet had
said "until they reach the Banu Qurayzah"; so they prayed the
afternoon prayer there after the last evening prayer. God did not
find fault with them in His Book, nor did the Messenger of God
reprimand them for it. (This report is according to Muhammad b.

Ishaq-his father [Ishaq b. Yasar]133-Ma'bad b. Ka'b b. MAlik al-
AngAri,134)

   According to [Sufyan] b. Wakr-Muhammad b. Bishr-
Mubammad b. 'Amr-his father ['Amr b. 'Algamah]-
'Algamah-'A'ishah, who said: The Messenger of God pitched a
round tent over Sa'd in the mosque.13s He laid down his arms-
that is, when he had come back from [the Battle of] the Trench-
and the Muslims, too, laid down their arms. Then Gabriel came to
him and said: "Have you laid down your arms? By God, the angels
have not yet laid down their arms! Go out to them, and fight
them!" The Messenger of God called for his breastplate and put it
on. Then he went out, and the Muslims went out too. When he
passed by the Banu Ghanm,136 he said, "Who passed by you?"
They replied, "Dihyah al-Kalbi passed by us." (His demeanor,
beard, and face were likened to Gabriel's.) Then he encamped by
[the Band Qurayzah]. (Sa'd was in his tent that the Messenger of
God had pitched over him in the mosque.) He besieged them for a
month or for twenty-five nights. When the siege became too se-
vere for them, they were told to submit to the judgment of the

Messenger of God. Abu Lubabah b. 'Abd al-Mundhir gave a sign
that it would mean slaughter. So they said, "We will submit to the
judgment of Said b. Mu'adh." The Messenger of God said, "Submit

   132. Also vocalized Una.

   133. Ishaq b. Yasir, the father of Muhammad b. Ishaq, was a mawla of Qays b.
Makhramah . He was considered a very reliable transmitter. His exact dates are not
known . See In Iiajar, Tahdh1b, I, 257.

  134. The brother of 'Ubaydallih b. Ka'b b. Malik al-An$ari. See GAS, I, 276-77.
  13S. To shelter Sa'd b. Mu'adh while he was recuperating from his wound.
  136. A clan of the al-Awsj see Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 154.

[[p 55]]
3  The Victory of Islam

[ 14881  to his judgment." So they submitted. The Messenger of God sent

         to him a donkey with a saddle padded with palm fiber, and he was

         mounted on it.
           According to 'A'ishah: His wound had healed, so that nothing of

         it was visible except what looked like a ring.
           Resumption of the account of Ibn Ishaq: The Messenger of God

         besieged them twenty-five nights, until the siege exhausted them
         and God cast terror into their hearts. Huyayy b. Akhtab had en-
         tered among the Banu Quray;ah in their fortress when Quraysh
         and Ghatafan had gone back leaving them; this he did in fulfill-
         ment of his compact with Ka'b b. Asad. When they became certain
         that the Messenger of God would not depart from them until he

         had fought it out with them, Ka'b b. Asad said to them: "People of
         the Jews, you see what has befallen you. I shall propose three
         alternatives to you. Take whichever one you will." "What are
         they?" they asked. He said: "That we follow137 this man and be-
         lieve him; for, by God, it has become clear to you that he is indeed
         a prophet sent [from God] and that it is he whom you used to find
         [mentioned] in your book. Then you will be secure in your lives,
         your property, your children, and your wives." They said, "We

         will never depart from the law of the Torah or exchange it for
         another." "Since you reject this proposal of mine," he said, "come
         let us kill our children and wives and go out to Muhammad and
         his companions as men who brandish swords, leaving behind us
         no impediments to worry us , until God judges between us and
         Muhammad. If we die, we shall die having left nothing behind us
         for which we fear; if we win victory, by my life we shall find
         women and children ." They said: "Kill these poor ones? What
         would be the good of living after them?" He said: "Since you have
         rejected these proposals of mine , tonight is the night of the Sab-
         bath. Perhaps Muhammad and his companions feel themselves
         safe in it. Go down; perhaps we can take Muhammad and his
         companions by surprise." They said, "Profane our Sabbath and do
         on it what none of our predecessors has ever done , except those
         you know about-and they were transformed in a way that you
         surely know ?" He said, "No man among you has ever for a single
         night shown sound judgment since his mother bore him!"

            137. Variant, "swear allegiance to."

[[p 56]]
The Events of the Year S  31

   Then they sent to the Messenger of God, saying, "Send us Abu                     [1489)
Lubabah b. 'Abd al-Mundhir, one of the Banu 'Amr b. 'Awf "138_.
they139 were confederates of al-Aws-"so that we can ask his
advice in this affair." The Messenger of God sent him to them.
When they saw him, the men rose to meet him , and the women
and children rushed to grab hold of him, weeping before him, so
that he felt pity for them. They said to him, "Abu Lubabah, do you
think we should submit to Muhammad's judgment?" "Yes," he
said, but he pointed with his hand to his throat, that it would be
slaughter. (Abu Lubabah [later] said, "By God, as soon as my feet
moved, I knew that I had betrayed God and His Messenger.") Abu
Lubabah rushed away at a loss. Before coming to the Messenger of
God, he tied himself to one of the pillars in the mosque, saying, "I
will not leave this spot until God forgives me for what I have
done." He promised God that he would never set foot on the
territory of the Band Qurayzah. "Never," he said, "shall God see

me in a land where I betrayed God and His Messenger." When
news of him reached the Messenger of God-Abu Lubabah was
slow in coming to him, and the Messenger of God deemed him
late-he said, "Had he come to me, I would have sought forgive-
ness for him; but, since he has done what he did, I cannot release
him from his place, until God forgives him."

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah b. al-Facll-Muhammad b.
Isl$q-Yazid b. 'Abdallah b. Qusayl:l40 The forgiving of Abu
Lubabah was revealed to the Messenger of God while he was in the
apartment of Umm Salamah.141 Umm Salamah said, "I heard the
Messenger of God laughing at daybreak; so I said, 'Why are you
laughing, Messenger of God?-may God make you laugh heart-

   138. 'Anna b. 'Awf was a clan of al-Aws.
   139. I.e., the Band Quray;ahl on the alliance between the Band Quray;ah and al-
Aws, see Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 214.
   140. Yazid b. 'Abdallah b. Qusayl died in 122/740 at the age of ninety. See In
I;Iajar, Tahdhfb, XI, 342-43.
   141. Muhammad married Umm Salamah Hind bt. al-Mughlrah, whose hus-

band, Abu Salamah, had died of wounds after the Battle of Uhud, in 4/626, see
Poonawala, Last Years, 132, (I, 1771] . Muhammad's wives lived in separate apart-
ments of his residence, which was adjacent to the mosque in Medina. He is said to
have spent a night with each of them in turns cf. Watt, Muhammad at Medina,

284, 396.

[[p 57]]
32 The Victory of Islam

[1490   ilyl' 142 He replied, 'Abu Lubabah has been forgiven.' I said, 'Shall I
        not announce the good news to him ?' 'Yes,' he said, 'if you will.' 11
(14911  So Umm Salamah stood at the door of her chamber (it was before
        the curtain was imposed on them) and.said: "Abu Lubabah, re-
        joice! God has forgiven you." The people swarmed toward him to
        release him, but he said: "No, by God! Not until the Messenger of
        God is the one who releases me with his own hand!" And so, when
        he went out for the morning prayer, he released him.

          According to Ibn Ishaq: Tha'labah b. Sa'yah,143 Usayd144 b.

        Sa'yah, and Asad b. 'Ubayd-a group of men from the Banu
        Hadl,145 not from the Band Quray;ah or al-Nadir (their genealogy
        was superior to that ), but cousins of the men in question-became
        Muslims the night that Qurayzah submitted to the judgment of

        the Messenger of God. During that night, 'Amr b. Su'da al-Qurazi
        went out and passed by the guards of the Messenger of God-
        Muhammad b. Maslamah al-Angari was in charge of them that
        night. When the latter saw 'Amr, he said, "Who is it?" "`Amr b.
        Su'da," he replied. 'Amr had refused to go along with the Banu
        Qurayzah in their treachery toward the Messenger of God.
        "Never," he had said, "will I act treacherously toward Muham-
        mad." Having recognized him, Muhammad b. Maslamah said, "0
        God, do not deprive me of (forgiveness forJ146 the lapses of the
        noble"-and he let him pass. 'Amr went his way and spent that
        night in the mosque of the Messenger of God in Medina . Then he
        went away, and no one knows to this day into which of God's
        lands he went . His story was mentioned to the Messenger of God,.
        who said, "He was a man whom God rescued for his loyalty."

          142. Adlaaka Alldhu sinnaka-literally, " may God make your tooth laugh";
        i.e., may He make you laugh or smile heartily, so that you reveal your side teeth.
        The teeth immediately behind the four eyeteeth were called dawdi21k )"laughers")
        because they became visible in laughter or smiling; see Lisan, IV, 2558.

          143. So vocalized by ed. Leiden; perhaps to be vocalized "Sa'iyyah," as by the

        editor of W, II, 503.
          144. So vocalized by IH and ed. Cairo. Ed. Leiden prefers the vocalization "Acid"

        on the basis of al-Dhahabi , Mushtabih, 299.
          145. On the clan of Hadl, which had become closely connected to the Bane

        Quray;ah, see Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 193-94.
           146. Understanding igdlah, as in W, 504; IH, III, 238; cf. ed. Leiden, Glossarium,

        p. CCCL.

[[p 58]]
The Events of the Year 5 33

   According to Ibn lshaq: Some men allege that he was bound                        [ 1492[
with an old frayed rope along with the Band Qurayzah who were
bound when they submitted to the judgment of the Messenger of
God. In the morning his rope was cast aside, and no one knew
where he had gone. Then the Messenger of God said this saying
about him. But God knows best [what really happened).

   According to Ibn Ishaq: In the morning, they submitted to the
judgment of the Messenger of God. The al-Aws jumped up and
said: "Messenger of God, they are our clients (mawdli), not clients
of al-Khazraj. You know what you did the other day with the
clients of al-Khazraj!" (Before besieging the Band Qurayzah, the
Messenger of God had besieged the Band Qaynuga', who were
confederates of al-Khazraj.147 They had submitted to his judg-
ment. 'Abdallah b. Ubayy b. Sal51148 had asked him for them, and
he had given them to him.) Therefore, when the al-Aws spoke to
him, the Messenger of God said, "People of al-Aws, will you not be
satisfied if one of your own men passes judgment on them?"
"Yes," they said. So he said, "It shall be entrusted to Sa'd b.
Mu'adh." The Messenger of God had placed Sa'd b. Mu'adh in the
tent of a Muslim149 woman named Rufaydah in his mosque. She
used to nurse the wounded and earn merit for herself by serving
Muslims who were impoverished. When Sa'd was struck by the
arrow in the ditch, the Messenger of God said to his tribesmen,
"Put him in Rufaydah's tent, so that I can visit him from
nearby."150 When the Messenger of God appointed him judge over
the Band Qurayzah, his'tribesmen came to him and lifted him
onto a donkey on which they had put a leather cushion, for he was
a stout man. They brought him to the Messenger of God, saying,
"Abu 'Amr,151 treat your clients well; for the Messenger of God
has put you in charge of the matter only that you may treat them
well." After they had plied him with many such requests, he said,

   147. For the campaign in 2/624 against the Jewish tribe of Band Qaynugi' and
their expulsion, see Watt and McDonald , Foundation, 85-87 11,1359-621.

   148. 'Abdallah b. Ubayy, a leader of al-Khazraj and one of the leading men of
Medina, had become a Muslim but was usually deemed to be a "hypocrite"
(munafiq) because of his opposition to some of Mubammad's decisions, see E12, s.v.
'Abd Allah b. Ubayy.

   149. IH and ed. Cairo: "a woman of Aslam."

   rio. Mubammad 's house adjoined the mosque.
   15 r. Addressing Sa'd by his kunyah.

[[p 59]]
34 The Victory of Islam

[1493)  "The time has come for Sa'd for the sake of God not to be influ-
        enced by anyone's reproach." Then one of his tribesmen who was
        with him went back to the dwelling place of the Band 'Abd al-
        Ashhal and announced to them the death of the men of the Banu

        Quray;ah before Sa'd b. Mu adh reached them because of the
        words he had heard from him.

          According to Abu Ja'far [al-Tabari]: When Sa'd reached the Mes-
        senger of God and the Muslims, the Messenger of God said (ac-
        cording to Ibn Waki'-Muhammad b. Bishr-Muhammad b.
        'Amr-his father-'Algamah, in a report that he attributed to Abu
        Said al-Khudri,152 who said: When he-that is, Sa'd-came into
        sight, the Messenger of God said), "Arise and go to your master
        (sayyid)" (or he said "to the best of you"), "and help him dis-
        mount." The Messenger of God said [to Sa'd], "Pass judgment on
        them." He replied, "I pass judgment on them that their fighters
        shall be killed and their children made captives and that their
        property shall be divided." The Messenger of God said, "You have
        passed judgment on them with the judgment of God and the judg-
        ment of His Messenger."

          Resumption of the account of Ibn Ishaq: As for Ibn Ishaq, he said
        in his report: When Sa'd reached the Messenger of God and the
        Muslims, the Messenger of God said, "Arise and go to your mas-
        ter." So they arose and went to him and said, "Abu 'Amr, the
        Messenger of God has entrusted you with your clients (mawdli),
        so that you may pass judgment on them." Said said, "God's oath
        and covenant be upon you in this matter, that the judgment on
        them shall be what I judge!" "Yes," they replied. He said, "And
        upon the one who is here"-[this he said) in the direction of the
        Messenger of God, while turning away from the Messenger of God
        out of respect for him. The Messenger of God said, "Yes." Sa'd
        said, "I pass judgment on them that the men shall be killed, the
        property divided, and the children and women made captives."

           According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
        'Agim b. 'Umar b. Qatadah-'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Amr b. Sa'd b.

           152. Abu Said Sa 'd b. M31ik b. Sinin al-Khudri al-AnVari (the Banta Khudrah
        wete a small group in the Band al-Harith clan of al-Khazraj, cf. Watt, Muhammad
        at Medina, 167), a companion of the Prophet, used to give legal opinions in Medina.
        He died ca. 63 /682-83 . See In Sa'd, Tabagdt , II/2, 124, 127; In Hajar, Igdbah, III,

        78-80.

[[p 60]]
The Events of the Year 5  35

Mu'adh-'Alqamah b. Waggas al-Laythi,153 who said: The Mes-                           [11494]
senger of God said to Sa'd, "You have passed judgment on them
with the judgment of God from above seven heavens. 11154

   According to Ibn Isl$q: Then they were made to come down,
and the Messenger of God imprisoned them in the dwelling of al-
Harith's daughter, a woman of the Banu al-Najjar.155 The Mes-
senger of God went out into the marketplace of Medina ] it is still
its marketplace today) and had trenches dug in it; then he sent for
them and had them beheaded in those trenches. They were
brought out to him in groups. Among them were the enemy of
God, Ifuyayy b. Akhlab, and Ka'b b. Asad. the head of the tribe.
They numbered 6oo or loo-the largest estimate says they were
between 8oo and goo. As they were being taken in groups to the
Messenger of God, they said to Ka'b b. Asad, "Ka'b, what do you
think will be done to us? " Ka'b said: "On each. occasion you do not
understand. Do you not see that the summoner does not discharge
[anyone] and that those of you who are taken away do not come
back? By God, it is death!" The affair continued until the Mes-
senger of God had finished with them.

  Huyayy b. Akhlab, the enemy of God, was brought. He was
wearing a rose-colored156 suit of clothes that he had torn all over
with fingertip-sized holes so that it would not be taken as booty
from him, and his hands were bound to his neck with a rope.
When he looked at the Messenger of God, he said, "By God, I do
not blame myself for being hostile to you, but whomever God
forsakes is forsaken."157 Then he turned to the people and said:

   153. 'Algamah b. Waggaq al-Laythi was born during the lifetime of the Prophet.
See Ibn Ilajar, Tahdhib, VII, 28o-8x.

   154. The phrase, which uses the Hebrew loanword raqf for "heaven," is usually
taken to mean, "You have judged with the judgment of God (written on the pre-
served tablet] above the seven heavens ") cf. Lane, Lexicon, III, 1137.

   155. The Banu al-Najjar were the most numerous clan or clan group among al-
Khazraj, see Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 165-66.

   156. Arabic fuggdltiyyah refers either to the color of the garments (that of the

desert flower called fuggdl.i; Lane, Lexicon, VI, 2424), or to a kind of embroidery

(IH, III, 241!.
   157. Here and in the verses that follow I read man yakhdhuli Ilahu , rather than

man yakhdhuli lldha, the voweling of edd. Leiden and Cairo, which would mean
"whoever forsakes God." fiuyayy, who remained a Jew to the end, certainly would
not have considered hostility to Muhammad to be a forsaking of God. Further-
more, khadhala (fail to aid, forsake) and its opposite na. ara (aid) are normally

[[p 61]]
36 The Victory of Islam

[x495)  "People, there is no injury in God 's command. It is the book of
        God, His decree, and a battlefield of great slaughter ordained
        against the Children of Israel." Then he sat down and was be-
        headed. Jabal b. Jawwal al-Tha'labi said:

        By your life, Ibn Akhtab did not censure himself [for his action])
             but whomever God forsakes is forsaken.

        He fought until he made his soul attain its vindication,
             and he strove to the utmost seeking glory.

          According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Mulammad b. Islyiaq-
        Muhammad b. Ja'far b. al-Zubayr'58-'Urwah b. al-Zubayr-

        'A'ishah, who said: Only one of their women was killed. By God,
        she was by me, talking with me and laughing unrestrainedly while
        the Messenger of God was killing their men in the marketplace,
        when suddenly a mysterious voice159 called out her name, saying,
        "Where is so and so?" She said, "Here I am, by God." I asked,
        "Alas, what is wrong?" She said, "I shall be killed." "Why?" I
        asked. She said, "A misdeedl60 that I committed." She was taken
        away and beheaded. ('A'ishah used to say: I shall never forget my
        wonder at her cheerfulness and much laughter, even when she

        knew that she would be killed.)
          According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-

        Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri: Thabit b. Qays b. Shammas came to al-Zabir
        b. Bata al-Qura;i, whose familiar name was Abu 'Abd al-Rahman.
        Al-Zabir had done Thabit b. Qays b. Shammas a favor in the Time
        of ignorance [before Islam]. (According to Muhammad [b. Ishag]:
        One of al-Zabir's descendants told me that he had done him this
        favor at the battle of Bu'ath.161 He had captured him but had cut
        off his forelock and released him.) Thabit came to al-Zabir, now an

        predicated of God. Cf. Qur'an 3:154: "If God helps you, none can overcome you,
        but if He forsakes you, who then can help you after Him?"

           158. Muhammad b. Ja'far b . al-Zubayr died between 110/728-29 and 3120/738.
        See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 93.

           159. Arabic hatif, a voice from an unseen source, often with supernatural

        overtones.
           3160. Arabic 1.,adathun a1 dathtuhu (literally, "a happening or a novelty that I

        caused to happen ") usually has a negative sense , see Lane, Lexicon, II, 528.
           161. The battle of Bu'ath, the climax of the war of Halib between Medina's two

        Arab tribes, al-Aws and al-Khazraj, took place ca. A.D . 617, shortly before the
        Hijrah and was fought in the territory of the Bane Quray;ah. See Watt, Muham-
        mad at Medina, 155-58, E12, s.v. Bu`ath.

[[p 62]]
The Events of the Year 5 37

old man, and said, "Abu 'Abd al-Rahman, do you recognize me?"                     ]1 496]
Al-Zabir replied, " Can someone like me fail to recognize someone
like you?" Thabit said, "I want to repay you for your favor to me."
Al-Zabir said, "Truly the noble man repays the noble!" Thabit
then went to the Messenger of God and said: "Messenger of God,
al-Zabir did me a favor and I owe him a debt of gratitude. I wish to
repay him for it. Grant me his life." The Messenger of God said,
"It is yours." So Thabit went to him and said: "The Messenger of
God has granted me your life. It is yours." He replied, "An old man
with no family and no children-what will he do with life?" So
Thabit went to the Messenger of God and said, "Messenger of
God, his family and children?" "They are yours," he said. So
Thabit went to him and said: "The Messenger of God has given me
your wife and your children. They are yours." He replied, "A
household in the Hijaz with no wealth-how can they survive?"
So Thabit went to the Messenger of God and said, "His wealth?"
"It is yours," he said. So Thabit went to him and said: "The Mes-
senger of God has given me your wealth. It is yours." He replied,
"0 Thabit, how fares it with the one whose face was like a
Chinese mirror in which the virgins of the tribe viewed
themselves-Ka'b b. Asad?" Thabit said, "He has been killed."
"And how fares it," he said, "with the chief of the settled folk and
the nomads, Iiuyayy b. Akhlab?" Thabit said, "He has been
killed." "And how fares it," he said, "with our vanguard when we
attacked and our defense when we wheeled round,162 'Azzal b.
Shamwil?" Thabit said, "He has been killed." "And how fares it,"
he said, "with the two assemblies ?" ]He meant the Banu Ka'b b.
QuraYZah and the Banu 'Amr b. Qurayzah.) Thabit said, "They
have gone to their death." He said: "Then I ask you for the sake of
the favor I once did for you to join me to my kinsmen, for by God
there is no good in living after them . I will not wait patiently for
God, not even [the time needed] to take the bucket of a watering
trough, until I meet my dear ones." So ThAbit brought him for-
ward, and he was beheaded. When what he said-"until I meet my

dear ones"-was reported to Abu Bakr, he said, "He will meet
them, by God, in the fire of Gehenna, there to dwell forever and

  162. Arabic kararnd; IH, III, 243, reads fararnd, "we fled"; W, II, 519, reads
wallaw "they turned back." Al-Wagidi gives the name as Ghazzal b. Samaw'al.

[[p 63]]
38 The Victory of Islam

[14971  forever." Concerning this, Thabit b. Qays b. al-Shammas said,
        mentioning al-Zabir b. Bala:

        My obligation has been acquitted: I was generous and was
             patient, when the folk turned away from patience.

        Zabir of all men had the greatest claim to gratitude
             on me; therefore, when his wrists were tied with a thong,

        I came to the Messenger of God, that I might untie him;
             and the Messenger of God to us was a flowing sea. 163

          The Messenger of God had commanded that all of them who
        had reached puberty should be killed.

          According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
        Ayyub b. 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Abdallah b. Abi $a'$a'ahl64 (a mem-
        ber of the Banu'Adi b. al-Najjar): Salmi bt. Qays, the mother of al-
        Mundhir and sister of Salit b. Qays, was one of the maternal aunts
        of the Messenger of God. She had prayed with him facing both of
        the giblahsl65 and had sworn allegiance to him after the manner
        of women.166 She asked him for [the life of I Rifa'ah b. Shamwil al-
        Qurazi, who had come of age. He had taken refuge with her and
        had previously been one of their acquaintances. She said: "Prophet
        of God, you are as dear to me as my father and mother! Give me
        Rifa'ah b. Shamwil, for he has said that he will pray and eat camel
        meat. 167 He gave him to her, and thus she saved his life.

          According to Ibn Ishaq: Then the Messenger of God divided the
        wealth, wives, and children of the Banu QuraYZah among the
        Muslims. On that day he made known the shares of horsemen and
        shares of foot soldiers, and he deducted from these shares the fifth

          163. I.e., granted the request . The sea is a metaphor for generosity.
           164. His name is also given as Ayyub b. 'Abd al-Rahman b. $a'$a'ah . His exact

        dates are not known . See In I3ajar, Tahdhib, I, 408.
           165. The giblah is the direction that Muslims face in prayer. Originally

        Muhammad followed the practice of the Jews in facing Jerusalem, but changed the
        qiblah to the direction of the Ka' bah in Mecca during A .H. 2 (see Watt and
        McDonald, Foundation, 24-25 (I, 1279-81), the change is alluded to in Qur'an
        2:136 ff. ). In other words, Salma's conversion to Islam took place before the change

        in the qiblah. See E12, s.v. Xibla.
          166. Arabic: baya'athu bay'ata al-nisd'i-this was the term for a pledge of alle-

        giance in which no obligation to fight was involved.
          r67. Camel meat is permitted under Islamic dietary regulations but prohibited

        under Jewish regulations.

[[p 64]]
The Events of the Year 5 39

(khums).168 A horseman received three shares: two shares for the                       [1498]
horse and one share for its rider. A foot soldier who had no horse
received one share. The cavalry at the battle with the Banu
QurayZah numbered thirty-six horses. It was the first booty
(fay')169 in which shares were allotted and from which the khums
was deducted; and according to its precedent (sunnah) and the
procedure of the Messenger of God in it divisions of booty took
place and precedent was followed in [succeeding ] expeditions.
However, if a man had horses with him, he appointed shares only
for two horses.

   Then the Messenger of God sent Sa'd b. Zayd al-Angara (a mem-
ber of the Banu 'Abd al-Ashhal) with some of the captives from the
Banu QurayZah to Najd, and in exchange for them he purchased
horses and arms . The Messenger of God selected for himself from
their women Rayhanah bt. 'Amr b. Khunafah, a woman from the
Banu 'Amr b. Qurayzah, and she remained his concubine; when he
predeceased her, she was still in his possession .' 70 The Messenger
of God offered to marry her and impose the curtain (Ihijab) on her,
but she said, "Messenger of God, rather leave me in your posses-
sion [as a concubine], for it is easier for me and for you." So he did
so. When the Messenger of God took her captive, she showed
herself averse to Islam and insisted on Judaism . So the Messenger
of God put her aside, and he was grieved because of her. Then,
while he was with his companions, he heard the sound of shoes
behind him and said, "This must be Tha'labah b. Sa'yah coming to
bring me tidings of Rayhanah 's acceptance of Islam." He came to
him and said, "Messenger of God, Rayhanah has become a
Muslim"-and it gave the Messenger of God joy.

  After the affair of the Banu QurayZah had ended, the wound of
Sa'd b. Mu'adh broke open. The account of this is as follows,
according to Ibn Waki'--Ibn Bishr-Muhammad b. 'Amr-his
father-'Algamah (in a report that he attributed to 'A'ishah): After
Sa'd b. Mu'adh had passed judgment as he did on the Banu
QuraYZah, he prayed, saying: "0 God, Thou knowest that there

  168. The khums was the one-fifth of booty reserved to Muhammad under
Qur'an 8 : 14 (said to have been revealed after the battle of Badr) to be used for
communal purposes; see Watt, Muhammad at Medina , 232, 255.

  16g. On the development of the term fay' ("chattels taken as booty ") see E12, s.v.
  170. Le, she never became a full wife. See Ibn Sa'd, Tabagat, VIII, 92-94.

[[p 65]]
40  The Victory of Islam

[1499]  are no men against whom I would rather fight and strive than men
        who called Thy Messenger a liar. 0 God, if Thou hast saved any
        portion of warfare with Quraysh for Thy Messenger, save me for
        it; but if Thou hast cut off the warfare between him and them,

        take me to Thee." So his wound broke open. The Messenger of
        God returned him to the tent he had pitched over him in the
        mosque.

           `A'ishah said: The Messenger of God, Abu Bakr, and 'Umar

        came to him. By the One holds the soul of Muhammad in His

        hand, I could tell Abu Bakr's weeping from Umar's even while I
        was in my chamber. They were, as God has said, "merciful among

        themselves. " 171
          'Algamah asked ['A'ishah], "Mother [of the Faithful], in how did

        the Messenger of God behave?" She replied: "His eye did not weep
        for anyone. When his grief for someone became intense or when
        he was upset, he would only take hold of his beard."

          According to Ibn Ilumayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq, who said: At
        the Battle of the Trench only six Muslims and three polytheists
        were killed. At the battle with the Banu QuraYZah, Khallad b.
        Suwayd b. Tha'labah b. 'Amr b. Balharith b. al-Khazraj was killed:
        a millstone was thrown onto him and badly crushed him. Abu
        Sinan b. Milan b. Uurthan, a member of the Band Asad b.
        Khuzaymah, died while the Messenger of God was besieging the
        Band Qurayzah and was buried in the cemetery of the Band
        QuraYZah. After the Messenger of God returned from the trench,
        he said, "Now we shall attack them"- meaning Quraysh-"and
        they will not attack us"-and thus it was, until God granted His
        Messenger the conquest of Mecca.

          According to Ibn Ishaq, the conquest of the Banu QuraYZah took
        place in the month of Dhu al-Qa'dah or in the beginning of Dhu al-
        I;iijjah.173 Al-Wagidi, however, has said that the Messenger of God
        attacked them a few days before the end of Dhu al-Qa'dah. He
        asserted that the Messenger of God commanded that furrows
        should be dug in the ground for the Banu QuraYZah. Then he sat

           171. Qur'an 48:29.

           172. See note 95, above.
           173. Dhu al-Qa'dah of A.H. 5 began on 24 March 627) Dhu al -Uijjah began on 23

        April.

[[p 66]]
The Events of the Year 5  41

down, and 'Ali and al-Zubayr began cutting off their heads in his 115001
presence. He asserts that the woman whom the Prophet killed
that day was named Bunanah, the wife of al-Hakam al-Qurazi-it
was she who had .killed Khallad b. Suwayd by throwing a mill-
stone on him. The Messenger of God called for her174 and be-
headed her in retaliation for Khallad b. Suwayd.

  There is disagreement over the date of the Prophet's expedition
against the Banu al-Mustaliq. This was the expedition called the
expedition of al-Muraysi'-al-Muraysi' being the name of a water-

ing place belonging to [the tribe of) Khuza'ah, near Qudayd toward
the coast.175 According to Ibn Ishaq (as transmitted to us by In
Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq), the Messenger of God attacked
the Banu al-Mustaliq [clan) of Khuza'ah in Sha'ban of the year 6 of
the Hijrah.176 Al-Wagidi has said that the Messenger of God at-
tacked al-Muraysi' in Sha'ban of the year 5 of the Hijrah.177 He
asserted that the Battle of the Trench and the battle with the Band
Quray*ah took place after al-Muraysi'-referring to the warfare
with the Banu al -Mugtaliq of Khuza'ah. Ibn Ishaq (as transmitted
to us by In I3umayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq) asserted that the
Messenger of God returned after concluding the affair of the Banu
Quray;ah at the end of Dhu al-Qa'dah or at the beginning of Dhu
al-I;iijjah. He remained in Medina during Dhu al-Iiijjah, Muhar-
ram, $afar, and the two months of Rabi'.178 During the year 5, the
polytheists were in charge of the pilgrimage.

   174. For ed. Leiden's da'a bihd ("called for her"), ed. Cairo reads da'a laha
("prayed for him"-i.e., for Khallad).

   175. The place, about 15 kilometers from Medina, was the site of the shrine to
Manit at al-Mushallal. See the article by T. Fahd in E12, s.v. Manat.

   176. Sha'ban of A.H. 6 began on 16 December 627.

   177. Sha'ban of A.H. 5 began on 26 December 626. For al -Wagidi's account, see
W, I, 404 ff. Cf. al-Tabari's account p. 51, below. Cf. also Hamidullah, Battlefields,
29-30, who argues for the earlier dating.

   178. Roughly from 23 April 627 (the beginning of Dhu al-I;iijjah, 5) to 17 Septem-

ber 627 (the end of Rabi' 11, 6).

[[p 67]]
16

                                    The
                          Events of the Year

                            6

                          (MAY 23, 627 -MAY 10, 628)

                                           qi

                    The Expedition against the Banu Li .iyan179

          According to Abu Ja'far (al-Tabari] : The Messenger of God set out
[ 1501( during Jumada 1180 at the end of six months from the conquest of

           the Banu QurayTah to the Banu Libyan , seeking [vengeance] for
           the men [who were betrayed ] at al-Raji', Khubayb b. 'Adi and his
           companions . 18 1 To take the enemy by surprise, he pretended to be
          setting out for the north . 182 He left Medina and traveled by
          Ghurab, a mountain near Medina, on his way north, then by
          Makhid183 and al-Batra '. 184 Then he veered to the left and, having
          passed Yayn and $ukhayrat al-Yamam , 185 his route led him
          directly by the main road to Mecca . He traveled quickly and
          halted at Ghuran, where there were settlements of the Banu

                  179. Parallels : W, II, 535-371 IH, III , 279-81 (tr. Guillaume, 484-86).
                  iso. Jumada I of A.H . 6 began on i8 September 627.
                181. See note 84, above.
                182. Arabic a]-sham means both "north" and "Syria."
                183. IH, III, 279 : al-Makng, but Yaqut, Mu'jam al-buldan, VII, 411 , records
             Makhi4 with reference to this passage and gives Mari o as a place within Medina
             (VII, 401(.
                184. AI-Batra' is a mountain about iSo miles northwest of Medina , about mid-
             way between Medina and Tabuk , it is not to be confused with the ancient Naba-
             tean city of Petra, which has the some name in Arabic.
                  185. In W, II, 536, the names are given as Bin and $ukhayrat al-Thumam,
              respectively.

[[p 68]]
The Events of the Year 6 43

Libyan. (Ghuran is a valley between Amaj and 'Usfan186 extend-                         [15021
ing toward a village called Sayah.) He found that they were on the
alert and had taken secure positions on the mountain tops. After
the Messenger of God had halted there and failed to take them by
surprise as he intended , he said, "If we went down to 'Usfan, the
Meccans would think that we had come for Mecca." So he set out
with two hundred riders of his companions and halted at 'Usfan.
He sent out two horsemen of his companions. They reached Kura'
al-Ghamim187 and then returned, and he turned back.

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Islhaq (who trans-
mitted the report about the expedition against the Banu Libyan
from 'A§im b. 'Umar b. Qatadah and 'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr, who
transmitted it from 'Ubaydallah b. Ka'b): Then the Messenger of
God returned to Medina. He had stayed only a few nights before
'Uyaynah b. Hisn b. Hudhayfah b. Badr al-Fazari with horsemen of
Ghatafan raided the milch camels of the Messenger of God at al-
Ghabah.188 Tending them were a man of the Banu Ghifar189 and
his wife. They killed the man and carried off the woman with the
camels.

                  The Expedition to Dhu Qarad

According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Isbaq-
'A§im b. 'Umar b. Qatadah, 'Abdallah b. AN Bakr, and someone
whom I do not doubt-'Ubaydallah b. Ka'b b. Malik (each of
whom transmitted part of the report about the expedition to Dhu
Qarad): The first person to know about them190 was Salamah b.

   z86. Yaqut, Mu'fam al-bulddn, VI, 173-74, locates 'Usfan at two stages or 33

Arab miles from Mecca on the road to Medina . The name is preserved by a modem

town about 50 miles northwest of Mecca.
   187. Kura' al-Ghamim was a mountain on the edge of a lava field eight miles

from'Usfan, see Yaqut, Mu'fam a]-bulddn, VII, 226.
   188. For al-Ghabah, see note 73, above . Parallels: W, II, 537-491 IH, III, 281-89

(tr. Guillaume, 486-90).
   189. The Banu Ghifar, a subdivision of the Banu I)amrah b . Bakr b . 'Abd Manat

b. Kinanah, lived in the Hijaz between Mecca and Medina. They became allies of
the Muslims and eventually embraced Islam . Some of them must have settled
within Medina. Cf. P. 5, above, where Muhammad is said to have left Siba' b. 'Urfu-
tah al-Ghifari in charge of Medina during his absence . See E12, s .v. Ghifar.

   19o. I.e., the raiding party from Ghalafan mentioned in the previous paragraph.

[[p 69]]
44 The Victory of Islam

          'Amr b. al-Akwa ' al-Aslami. 191 He set out for al-Ghabah early in
          the morning, with his bow and arrows suspended from his
          shoulder, accompanied by a slave of Talhah b . 'Ubaydallah.192

             However, the account of this expedition of the Messenger of
          God from Salamah b. al-Akwa ' [himself dates it] after his return to
          Medina from Mecca in the Year of al-Hudaybiyah.193 If that is

          correct, the events narrated on the authority of Salamah b. al-
          Akwa' must have taken place either in Dhu al-Hijjah of A.H. 6 or in
          the beginning of A.H. 7 , because the return of the Messenger of
          God from Mecca to Medina in the Year of al-Hudaybiyah took

          place in Dhu al-Hijjah of A.H. 6. Thus, nearly six months separate
           the date given by Ibn Ishaq for the expedition to Dhu al -Qarad and
           the date transmitted from Salamah b. al-Akwa'.

             The account of Salamah b. al-Akwa ' (is as follows]. According to
          al-Hasan b. Yahya194-Abu 'Amir al-'Agadi195-'Ikrimah b.
           'Ammar al-Yamami196-Iyas b. Salamah197-his father [Salamah
          b. al-Akwa '], who said: We returned to Medina with the Mes-
           senger of God -that is, after the peace of al-Hudaybiyah. The Mes-
[1503] senger of God sent out his camels with Rabah , the slave of the
           Messenger of God, and I went out with him with a horse belonging
           to Talhah b . 'Ubaydallah. When we woke up in the morning, we
           saw that 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Uyaynah had raided the camels of the
           Messenger of God, driving off all of them and killing their herds-
           man. I said: "Rabah, take this horse and get to Talhah. Tell the

                  191. Salamah is more frequently called "Ibn al-Akwa'," after his grandfather's
               nickname ("having a prominent or deformed wrist "). Known for his bravery, Sala-
               mah died in 74/693-94 when he was about eighty. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, N,15o-
               52.

                192. The reading of ed. Cairo, "Talbah b.'Abdallah," is probably a misprint. At I,
             1507, ed. Cairo agrees with ed . Leiden in reading "Talbah b. 'Ubaydallah."

                  193. In accordance with the custom of naming years after their most important
               event, All. 6 came to be known as the Year of al-Hudaybiyah, after the episode
               narrated at pp . 67 ff., below.

                194. Al-Hasan b. Yabya al-Jurjani died in 263/876 in his eighties. See Ibn Hajar,
             Tahdhib, II, 324-25.

                  195. Abu 'Amin 'Abd al-Malik b. 'Amr al-'AgadI died in 204 or 205/819-21. See
               Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 409-10.

                196. 'Ikrimah b. 'Ammar al -'Ijli Abu 'Ammar al-Yamaml was born in al-Ba$rah
             and died in 159/775-76. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, VII, 261-63.

                  197. Iyas b. Salamah b. al-Akwa' al-Aslami Abu Salamah was born in Medina
               and died there in 119/737 at the age of seventy-seven. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, I,
               388-89.

[[p 70]]
The Events of the Year 6 45

Messenger of God that the polytheists have raided his camels."
Standing on a hill, I faced Medina and shouted, "A raid!"198 three
times. Then I set out after the enemy, shooting arrows at them and
saying these rajaz verses:

I am In al-Akwa'!
      Today is the day for the mean [to receive destruction].199

By God, I kept shooting at them and hitting their riding animals.
Whenever one of their horsemen came back toward me, I would go
to a tree, sit beneath it, and shoot at him and hit his mount.
Whenever the mountain [track] narrowed and they went into a
narrow place, I would climb the mountain and pelt them with
stones. I kept doing this, by God, until I had set behind me every
one of the Messenger of God's camels that God had created and
they had left me free to do as I pleased with them. They had cast
off more than thirty spears and thirty cloaks to lighten them-
selves, and I placed stones to mark everything they cast off so that
the Messenger of God and his companions would notice it. Finally
they came to a narrow place on a pass, and 'Uyaynah b. Iiign b. [1504[
Badr came to them bringing help. They sat down for a midmorning
meal, and I sat down on a ridge above them. 'Uyaynah looked and
said, "What is it I see?" They said: "This fellow has given us
trouble. By God, he never left us since dawn, shooting at us until
he rescued everything that was in our hands." 'Uyaynah said,
"Four of you get up and attack him." Four of them made for me.
When they came within speaking range, I said , "Do you recognize
me?" "Who are you?" they asked. I said: "Salamah b. al-Akwa'! By
Him who has honored Muhammad, I will overtake every one of
you that I pursue, but none shall pursue me and overtake me."
One of them said, "I don't think so!"

   They went back, and I did not leave my place until I saw the
horsemen of the Messenger of God coming through the trees. The

   198. Arabic: yd $abaliah, literally, "0 my morning!" or "0 what a moming!"
See Lane, Lexicon, N, 1642, for the idiom.

   199. Arabic: al-yawmu yawmu 1-ruci/a'i, literally, "today is the day of the ones
who suck." In pre-Islamic Arab folklore one sign of stinginess (one of the lowest of
vices in Bedouin society) was for a man to suck the teats of his milch camel rather
than milk it, so that the sound of milk streaming into the bucket would not attract
guests. See Lane, Lexicon, III, 1098.

[[p 71]]
46 The Victory of Islam

          first of them was al-Akhram al-Asadi) following him came Abu
          Qatadah al-Ansari, and after him was al-Migdad b. al-Aswad al-
          Kindi.200 I took hold of the rein of al-Akhram's horse and said:
           "Akhram, the men are few. Be on guard against them) don't let
          them cut you off before the Messenger of God reaches us with his
          companions." Al-Akhram said, "Salamah, if you believe in God
          and the Last Day and know that Paradise is real and that the Fire is
          real, do not stand between me and martyrdom!"

             I let him go. He and 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Uyaynah met. Al-
          Akhram hamstrung 'Abd al-Rahman's horse, but 'Abd al-Rahman
[1505) thrust at him with a spear and killed him. 'Abd al-Rahman then
          shifted onto his horse. Abu Qatadah overtook'Abd al-Rahman and
           thrust at him and killed him. 'Abd al-Rahman had hamstrung Abu
          Qatadah's horse, so Abu Qatadah shifted onto al-Akhram's horse.
          They left in flight.

             According to Salamah: By Him who honored Muhammad, I fol-
          lowed them, running on foot until I could not see any of Muham-
           mad's companions behind me, or even their dust. Before sunset
           they turned aside into a canyon called Dhu Qarad where there was
          water to drink, for they were thirsty. They saw me running after
           them, and I drove them away so that they tasted not a drop of it.
           Then they went up into the mountain trail of Dhu Athir. One of
           them turned back to attack me, and I shot him with an arrow that
           landed in his shoulder blade. I said, "Take that!":201

           I am Ibn al-Akwa'!
               Today is the day for the mean [to receive destruction].

           He said, "My al-Akwa' of early this morning? " "Yes," I said, "you
           enemy of your own soul!" Then I saw two horses on the trail, and I
           led them back toward the Messenger of God. My uncle'Amir met
           me after dark with a skin of watered milk and one of water. I made
           my ablutions, prayed, and drank) then I came to the Messenger of

                zoo. He was also called al-Migdad b. 'Amry cf. IH, III, 282 (tr. Guillaume, 487).
             See E12, s.v. al-M :kdad b. 'Amr.

                                    (e should follow ed. Cairo in reading the words "Take that!" as
             ,art of the versa, which would then fonn a complete hemistich of rajaz meter.
             khudhhd wa na bnu_1-'akwa'L However, on p. 48, below, the same verse is intro-
             duced with the words "Take that from me" (khudhhd minm7, which could not
             form part of the verse metrically.

[[p 72]]
The Events of the Year 6 47

God, who was at the watering place from which I had driven them
at Dhu Qarad. Behold, the Messenger of God had taken the camels [ r 5 o6]
I had rescued from the enemy and each spear and cloak. Bila1202
had slaughtered a female camel from the ones I had rescued from
the foe and was roasting some of its liver and hump for the Mes-
senger of God. I said, "Messenger of God, let me choose a hundred
men and follow the enemy, so that not one of them shall remain."
The Messenger of God laughed until his back teeth became visible
and could be clearly seen [in the light of the firej;2m then he said,
"Would you do it?" I said, "Yes, by Him who has honored you!"
The next morning the Messenger of God said, "Now they are
being received as guests in the country of Ghatafan."

   A man then came from Ghatafan and said that so and so
"slaughtered a camel for them. When they had stripped off its
skin, they saw dust; so they said, 'The enemy is upon you,' and left
fleeing."

   The next morning the Messenger of God said, "Our best horse-
man today has been Abu Qatadah, and our best foot soldier has
been Salamah b. al-Akwa'." The Messenger of God gave me the
share of a horseman and the share of a footman. Then the Mes-
senger of God mounted me behind him on al-'A4ba'.2D4 While we
were traveling, a footman of the An§ar who was unbeatable at
running began saying, "Is there no one who will race?" He said
this several times. When I heard him, I said, "Do you not honor a
generous man and fear a noble man?" He said, "No, unless he be
the Messenger of God." So I said: "Messenger of God, you are as
dear to me as my father and mother! Permit me to race the man."
"If you wish," he said. So I leaped down and ran. I held back for one

   202. Bilal, an Ethiopian slave, tortured by his pagan master for accepting Islam,
was rescued by Abu Bakr and became the first muezzin of the Muslim community.
See E12, s.v. Bilsil b. Rabah.

   203. Arabic nawajidh could be used for the wisdom teeth, all the molars, or the
teeth next to the eye teeth. The lexicographers were concerned about the possibil-
ity of Muhammad 's laughing immoderately . See the discussion in Lane, Lexicon,
VIII, 2769. Instead of ed. Leiden's (bads aw bdnat nawdjidhuhn) "his back teeth
became visible or could be clearly seen," I translate ed. Cairo (bads wa-qad banat
nawajidhuha ( daw'i al-nar] ). The bracketed words are from the parallel text in
the $aIiiI of Muslim (3:1433-41).

   204. AI-'Adba' ("slit-eared," or "short in the foreleg ") was Mubammad's she-
camel; see Lane, Lexicon, V, 2071.

[[p 73]]
48 The Victory of Islam

[1507]   or two hills,205 then I caught up with him and slapped him be-
        tween the shoulders. "I've beaten you, by God," I said. "I don't
         think so!" he said.206 So I beat him back to Medina. We stayed

         there only three nights before setting out for Khaybar.207
            Resumption of the account of Ibn Islzaq :208 Salamah b. al-Akwa'

         was accompanied by a slave of Talbah b. 'Ubaydallah, and with
         the slave was a horse of Tall}ah's that he was leading. When Sala-
         mah went up into al-Wads' Pass,209 he saw some of [the raiders']
         horsemen) so he looked in the direction of Sal' and shouted, "A
         raid!" Then he set out at full speed after the enemy-he was like a
         beast of prey. Having overtaken them, he began to turn them away
         with arrows. When he shot, he would say, "Take that from me"-

        I am Ibn al-Akwa'!
             Today is the day for the mean [to receive destruction].

        Whenever the horses came toward him, he fled and attacked them
        from the side. Whenever he could shoot, he would shoot and say,
        "Take that"-

        I am Ibn al-Akwa'!
             Today is the day for the mean [to receive destruction].

        One of their men said, "Our little al-Akwa' it is at the beginning of

        the day!"210
          When a report of Ibn al-Akwa"s shout reached the Messenger of

        God, he sounded the alarm in Medina . The horsemen all came
        following one another to the Messenger of God. The first of the

           205. The text in the $allih of Muslim is fuller : "I held myself back from him for
        one hill or two to save my breath, then I ran on his heels. I held back from him for
        one hill or two, then I sprinted and overtook him", see ed . Leiden, Glossarium, p.

        CCLVI.
           2o6. Following ed. Leiden (in a;unnu !, ed. Cairo reads innl a;unnu, "I think so."
           107. See pp. i 16-24, below, for an account of the expedition to Khaybar in A.H.

        7.
          208. This continues the report begun at al -Tabari, 1, 1502, above.
           209. Thaniyyat al-Wadd' ("Farewell Pass"j was the pass over which the road to

        Mecca left Medina. See Ydqut, Muyam al-bulddn, M, as, photograph in

        Hamidullah, Battlefields, lo.
          210. The text is uncertain . Ed. Leiden reads, ukayyi'und huwwa awwala

        1-nahari, which is what I have translated . This seems to be a contemptuous re-
        joinder, using the diminutive form of the name al-Akwa'. Ed. Cairo has a different
        reading, which also puns on the name : a-wa-yaki'und huwwa ... (and will he
        sting, or butt, us ... ).

[[p 74]]
The Events of the Year 6 49

horsemen to reach him was al-Migdad b. 'Amr . The first horse-
man to stand by the Messenger of God after al-Migdad from the
Angar was 'Abbad b. Bishr b. Waqsh b. Zughbah b. Za'ura (a mem-
ber of the Banu 'Abd al-Ashhal); then came Said b. Zayd (one of the
Band Ka'b b. 'Abd al-Ashhal), Usayd b. Zuhayr (a member of the [15081
Band Harithah b. al-Harith, but there is uncertainty about him),
Ukkashah b. Milan (a member of the Banu Asad b. Khuzaymah),
Muhriz b. Nadlah (a member of the Banu Asad b. Khuzaymah),
Abu Qatadah al-Harith b . Rib'! (a member of the Banu Salimah),
and Abu 'Ayyash ( that is,'Ubayd b. Zayd b. $amit, a member of the
Band Zurayq ). When they had gathered round the Messenger of
God, he appointed Sa'd b. Zayd as their commander and said, "Set
out in pursuit of the enemy until I catch up to you with men."

   According to a report that has come to me from members of the
Banu Zurayq, the Messenger of God said to Abu 'Ayyash, "Abu
'Ayyash, why don't you give this horse to a man who rides better
than you, so that he can overtake the enemy?"

   According to Abu 'Ayyash, who said: I replied, "Messenger of
God, I am the best rider among the people !" Then I struck the
horse, but I swear to God that before it had run fifty cubits it threw
me. So I marveled about how the Messenger of God had said, 'Why
don't you give it to someone who rides better than you?' and about
how I had said that I was the best rider among the people."

   Some of the Banu Zurayq asserted that the Messenger of God
gave Abu'Ayyash's horse to Mu'adh b. Ma'i§ (or'A'idh b. Ma'i^) b.
Qays b. Khaldah, who was an eighth man . Some people count
Salamah b . 'Amr b . al-Akwa' as one of the eight and reject Usayd b.
Zuhayr of the Banu Harithah; however, Salamah on that day was
not a horsemen: he was the first to overtake the enemy on foot. So
the horsemen set forth in pursuit of the enemy and met them.

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah -Muhammad b. Ishaq- 115091
'Agim b. 'Umar b. Qatadah: The first horseman to overtake the
enemy was Muliriz b. Nacllah of the Banu Asad b. Khuzaymah
(Mubriz was called al-Akhram and was also called Qumayr).
When the alarm was sounded, a horse belonging to Mahmud b.
Maslamah started running around in its enclosure when it heard
the neighing of the horses -it was a specially tended, well-rested
horse. Some of the women of the Banu 'Abd al-Ashhal said [to
him) when he saw the horse running around in the enclosure,

[[p 75]]
50 The Victory of Islam

           dragging the trunk of the palm tree to which it had been tied,
           "Qumayr, would you like to ride this horse-you see how it is-
           and catch up with the Messenger of God and with the Muslims?"
           He said yes; so they gave it to him, and he set out on it. The horse
           being rested, it did not cease to outstrip the [other] horses until it
           reached the enemy. Mubriz stopped before them and said, "Halt,
           you sons of vile slave women, until the Emigrants and Angar
          riding after you catch up with you!" One of them attacked him
           and killed him. The horse wheeled round, and they could not stop
           it until it stood by its pen among the Banu 'Abd al-Ashhal. No
           other Muslims were killed. The name of Mahmud's horse was
          Dhu al-Limmah 211

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
           someone whom people do not doubt-'Ubaydallah b. Ka'b b.
           Malik al-Angari: Muhriz in fact was riding a horse called al-
(i 5 i o] Janah212 belonging to Ukkashah b. Mih§an. When Mubriz was
           killed, al-Janah was taken as booty. When the horsemen met, Abu
           Qatadah al-Harith b. Rib'! of the Banu Salimah killed Habib b.
           'Uyaynah b. Hign, covered him with his cloak, and rejoined the
           men. When the Messenger of God approached with the Muslims,
           there was Habib covered with Abu Qatadah's cloak. The people
           exclaimed, "Surely we belong to God, and to Him we return! "213
           and said that Abu Qatadah had been killed; but the Messenger of
           God said, "It is not Abu Qatadah, but someone killed by Abu
           Qatadah; he has put his cloak on him so that you will know that
           he did it." 'Ukkashah b. Mingan overtook Awbar and his son 'Amr
           b. Awbar, who were riding on one camel, and ran them through
           with a spear, killing both of them. They rescued some of the
           camels. The Messenger of God traveled until he halted at the
           mountain of Dhu Qarad, and the people came to him in groups.
           The Messenger of God made camp and stayed there a day and a
           night. Salamah b. al-Akwa' said to him, "Messenger of God, if you
           sent me out with a hundred men, I would rescue the remaining
           animals and seize the enemy by their necks." The Messenger of
           God said, as I have been informed, "They are now being given

                  sr r. Dhu al-limmah means "having a long lock of hair."
                  m2. Al-janab means "wing."
                213. Qur'an 2:156, traditionally said in times of misfortune.

[[p 76]]
The Events of the Year 6 51

their evening drink in [the territory of ] Ghatafan." The Messenger
of God divided the meat of one camel among each hundred of his
companions. They stayed there, and then the Messenger of God
returned to Medina. He stayed there part of Jumada II and Rajab;
then he raided the Band al-Mustalig214 [clan] of Khuza'ah in
Sha'ban of the year 6.215

       The Expedition against the Banu a1-Muga1ig216                                    [1511]

According to In Iiumayd-Salamah b. al-Fadl and 'Ali b.
Mujahid217-Muhammad b. Ishaq-'ASim b. 'Umar b. Qatadah,
'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr, and Muhammad b. Yahya b. l jabban. [Ibn
Ishaq] said, "Each transmitted to me part of the report on the Band
al-Mustaliq." They said: Word reached the Messenger of God that
the Band al-Mustaliq were gathering against him under the leader-
ship of al-Harith b. Abi Dirar. (Al-Harith was the father of
Juwayriyah bt. al-Ilarith, [who subsequently became] the wife of
the Messenger of God.) When the Messenger of God heard about
them, he set out toward them and met them at one of their water-
ing places called al-Muraysi', near Qudayd toward the coast. The
people advanced toward each other and fought fiercely. God put
the Band al-Mustaliq to flight and killed some of them. He gave
their children, women, and property to the Messenger of God as
booty-God gave them to him as spoil. A Muslim named Hisham
b. $ubabah from the Band Kalb b. 'Awf b. 'Amir b. Layth b. Bakr
was wounded by one of the Ansar who was a close kinsman of
'Ubadah b. al-$amit; he mortally wounded him by mistake, think-
ing he was one of the enemy.

  While the people were at that watering place, they brought their
animals down to drink. With 'Umar b. al-Khattab was a hired man
of his from the Band Ghifar named Jahjah b. Said, leading his

  214. The name is given sometimes in its full form of Band al -Mu;laliq and
sometimes in the abbreviated form of Balmulxaliq. I have normalized to the longer
form throughout.

   2r 5. Sha'ban of A .H. 6 began on 16 December 627.
  216. Parallels : W, I, 404-II, 426 (dated A.H.'5, see p. 41, above); IH, Ill, 289-96

(tr. Guillaume, 490-93).
   217. 'All b. Mujahid b. Muslim al-Razi, a historian and traditionist, was born in

100/718 in Rayy and died in 182/798. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, VII, 377-78; GAS, 1,

312.

[[p 77]]
52 The Victory of Islam

k512]  horse. jahjah and Sinan al-Juhani (a confederate of the Banu 'Awf
       b. al-Khazraj) began crowding each other at the watering place and
       fought. Al-Juhani shouted, "People of the AnOar!" and jahjah
       shouted, "People of the Emigrants!" 'Abdallah b. Ubayy b. Salul,
       who had with him a band of his fellow tribesmen including the
       young lad Zayd b. Arqam,218 became angry and said: "Have they
       really done it? They have tried to outrank us and outnumber us in
       our own lands. By God, the proverb, 'Fatten your dog and he will
       eat you up!' fits us and [the wearers of ] the jilbab219 of Quraysh to
       a tee. By God, if we go back to Medina, those who are stronger will
       drive out the weaker from it. "220 Then he turned to his tribesmen
       who were with him and said: "This is what you have done to
       yourselves ! You allowed them to settle in your lands and divided
       your wealth with them. Had you kept from them what you had, by
       God they would have moved to lands other than yours."

          Zayd b. Argam heard this and took it to the Messenger of God-
       this when the Messenger of God had finished with his enemies-
       and he gave him a report. 'Umar b. al-Khallab, who was with him,
       said, "Messenger of God, order 'Abbad b. Bishr b. Waqsh to kill
       him." The Messenger of God said: "`Umar, how will it be if people
       start saying that Muhammad kills his companions ? No, announce
       our departure instead." (It was at an hour when the Messenger of
       God usually did not break camp.) So the people departed.

         218. Zayd b. Argam b. Zayd b. Qays b . al-Nu'man b. Malik b. al-Agharr b.

       Tha'labah b. Kab b. al-Khazraj al-An§ari participated in seventeen expeditions
       with the Prophet. He later emigrated to al-Kufah and fought on'AlI's side at $iffin.
       He died between 65/784 and 68/688 . See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, 394-95.

          219. Arabic: jaldbib Quraysh " the shirts (or coarse waist wrappers) of Quraysh."
       The origin of this apparently derogatory epithet for the Emigrants remains obscure,
       none of the older Arabic dictionaries explains it . Abu Dharr's note printed in most
       editions of IH, reads : "An epithet that the polytheists applied to the Emigrants who
       had become Muslims. Jaldlib (plural of jilbdb) originally means 'coarse waist wrap-
       pers.' They used to wrap themselves in them, and so they acquired this nickname."
       One may see it as a reference to poverty or simply to distinctive dress. At p. 59,
       below, 'A'ishah uses the word to designate the outer garment in which she
       wrapped herself and lay down while waiting for the departed caravan to notice her
       absence. See ed. Leiden, Glossarium, p. cixvn. W. Arafat has argued that the word
       may be derived from the verb jalaba (to import) and may therefore mean "the
       imported ones ." See the note in his article, "A Controversial Incident in the Life of

       Hassan b . Thabit," p. 197 n. 4.

          ago. Qur'an 63 :8 quotes these words.

[[p 78]]
The Events of the Year 6  53

   Now when 'Abdallah b. Ubayy b. Salul heard that Zayd b. Ar-                    [1513)
qam had informed the Messenger of God of what he had heard him
say, he went to the Messenger of God and swore, "By God, I did
not say what he said, neither did I speak of it." 'Abdallah b. Ubayy
was a great noble among his people ; so those who were present
with the Messenger of God-companions of his from the Angar-
said, "Messenger of God, perhaps the lad was mistaken in his
report and did not remember exactly what the man said." They
said this out of affection for'Abdallah b. Ubayy and to defend him.

   After the Messenger of God had mounted and set out, Usayd b.
Hu4ayr met him and, having greeted him as a prophet and wished
him peace, said, "Messenger of God, you have set out at an
unheard-of hour at which you usually do not set out." The Mes-
senger of God said to him, "Have you not heard what your com-
panion has said?" "Which companion, Messenger of God?" he
asked. "'Abdallah b. Ubayy," he answered. "And what did he
say?" he asked. He replied, "He said that if he returned to Medina,
those who are stronger would drive out the weaker from it.,,
Usayd said: "You, by God, 0 Messenger of God, will drive him
out, if you wish. He is the weak one by God, and you are the
strong." Then he said: "Messenger of God, be gentle with him. By
God, God caused you to arrive at the very moment when his
people were stringing precious stones to make him a crown; so he
thinks that you deprived him of a kingdom."

  The Messenger of God traveled all that day until evening with
the people, all that night until dawn, and the first part of the day
until the sun hurt them; then he halted with them, and they fell
asleep as soon as they felt the touch of the ground. He did this only
to distract them from the talk that had taken place the day
before-what 'Abdallah b. Ubayy had said. In the afternoon he set
out with the people, marched through the Hijaz, and halted at a
watering place in the Hijaz called Naq'a', a little above al-Nagi'.221
When the Messenger of God set out in the afternoon, a strong

wind blew on the people, hurting them, and they became fearful
about it. The Messenger of God said, "Do not be afraid: it blew
only because of the death of one of the great men among.the

  221. The place is mentioned by Yaqut, Mujam a-bulddn, VIII , 309, as belonging
to the tribe of Muzaynah.

[[p 79]]
54 The Victory of Islam

(15141  unbelievers." When they reached Medina, they found that Rifa'ah
        b. Zayd b. al-Tabut, one of the Band Qaynuga', a great man among
        the Jews and a cave of refuge to the hypocrites, had died on that
        day. The sura in which God mentions the hypocrites ("When the
        hypocrites come to you. . . . ") was revealed concerning'Abdallah
        b. Ubayy b. Salul and those of like mind.222 When this sura was
        revealed, the Messenger of God took hold of Zayd b. Arqam's ear
        and said, "This is he whose ear God has confirmed."223

          According to Abu Kurayb224-Yal}ya b. Adam225-Isra'11226-
        Abu Isliag227-Zayd b. Arqam, who said: I went out with my
        paternal uncle on an expedition, and I heard'Abdallah b. Ubayy b.
        Salul saying to his companions : "Do not spend on those who are
        with the Messenger of God. By God, if we return to Medina, the
        stronger will drive out the weaker from it ."228 I mentioned this to
        my uncle, and my uncle mentioned it to the Messenger of God.
        The latter sent for me; I spoke to him, and he sent to 'Abdallah and
        his companions, who swore that they had not said it. The Mes-
        senger of God took me to be lying and believed him. I felt grief
        such as I never had felt, and I sat in the tent. My uncle asked,
        "What did you intend, acting so that the Messenger of God
        deemed you to be lying and hated your action ?" Then God re-
        vealed (the sura that begins), "When the hypocrites come to you."
        The Messenger of God sent to me and recited it; then he said,
        "God has confirmed your truthfulness, Zayd."

          Resumption of the account of Ibn Ishaq: 'Abdallah, the son of

          222. Qur'an, Sura 63 , entitled al-Mundfiqun, "The Hypocrites."
          223. I.e., God has confirmed the truth of what he said he heard. Cf. ed. Leiden,

        Glossarium, P. DLxm.
           224. Abe Kurayb Muhammad b . al-'Ala' b . Kurayb al-Hamdini al-Kufi died in

        248/862 . See In Hajar, Tahdhib IX, 385-86.
          225. Abe Zakariyi Yahya b. Adam b. Sulayman al-Umawl al-Abwal was born

        ca. 140/757 in al-Kufah and died in 203 /818. He was a respected scholar of filth,
        I adith, and Qur'an. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 175-76; GAS, 1, 520.

          226. Isri il b. Yunus b. Abi Ishaq al-Sabl'i al-Kufi was born in 100/7 r 8 and died in
        162/778. See al-Khalib, Tarikh Baghdad, VII, 20-25) Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 261-

        63.
           227. Abu Ishaq 'Amr b. 'Abdallih al -Hamdani, the grandfather of Iara'il b.

        Yunus, died between 126 and 129/743-47 at the age of ninety-six. See In Hajar,
        Tahdhib, I, 261-63.

           228. See note 220, above.

[[p 80]]
The Events of the Year 6  55

'Abdallah b. Ubayy, got word of what had happened involving his                   [15151
father.

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
'Agim b. 'Umar b. Qatadah: 'Abdallah b. 'Abdallah b. Ubayy b.
Salul came to the Messenger of God and said: "Messenger of God, I
have been told that you want to kill'Abdallah b. Ubayy because of
what has been reported to you concerning him. If you are going to
do it, command me to do it and I will bring you his head. By God,
al-Khazraj know that there has never been among them a man
more dutiful to his father than I. I am afraid that you may order
someone else to do it and that he may kill him; and then my soul
will not allow me to look on the slayer of 'Abdallah b. Ubayy
walking among the people: I would kill him, killing a believer to
avenge an unbeliever, and thereby enter the Fire [of Hell)." The
Messenger of God said, "No, we will be gentle with him and
associate with him on friendly terms as long as he stays with us."
Thus, after that day whenever he did anything objectionable, it
was his own tribesmen who reproved him, corrected him, cen-
sured him, and threatened him. When word of how they were
behaving reached the Messenger of God, he said to 'Umar b. al-
Khalxab: "What do you think, 'Umar? By God, had I killed him the
day you ordered me to kill him, prominent men would have been
upset, who, if I ordered them today to kill him, would do so."
'Umar said, "Now by God I know that what the Messenger of God
ordered had more of a blessing in it that what I would have
ordered."

  Miqyas b. $ubabah came from Mecca, pretending to have be-
come a Muslim, and said: "Messenger of God, I have come to you
as a Muslim. I have come to seek blood money229 for my brother,
who was killed by mistake." The Messenger of God ordered him
to be paid blood money for his brother Hisham b. $ubabah. He
stayed briefly with the Messenger of God; then he attacked his

   seg. Arabic diyah: a specified amount of money or goods due in cases of homi-
cide or other injuries to physical health unjustly committed upon the person of
another. The payment for homicide was normally roo camels, payable to the
aggrieved family. The payment terminated all further vengeance. See E12, s.v.
Diya.

[[p 81]]
5 6 The Victory of Islam

        brother's slayer, killed him, and left for Mecca as an apostate. He
        said while he was traveling:230

11516] It has sated my soul that he has spent the night laid to rest in
               the valley,
                with blood from his neck veins staining his two garments.

          Before I killed him, soul 's griefs
                assailed me and forbade me the smoothness of beds.

          With him I discharged my vengeance; I took my retaliation,
                and was the first to return to the idols.

          By [killing] him I took vengeance by force,231 and I made to pay

                blood money for him
                the princes of the Banu al -Najjar and the lords of Fari` 232

        Miqyas b. $ubabah also said:

        I rained down on him a blow that settled accounts : because of it
             there was a dripping
             of the belly's fresh blood that overspread him and flowed
             away.

        And I said, as death came over his features,
             "You cannot be safe from the Banu Bakr when they are

             wronged!"

11517]    Many of the Banu al-Muqaliq were wounded on that day. 'Ali b.
        Abi Talib killed two of them: Malik and his son. The Messenger of
        God took many captives, and they were divided among all the
        Muslims. Juwayriyah bt. al-Harith b. Abi Qirar, [who became] the
        wife of the Prophet, was one of the captives.
        According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Mul ammad b. Isliaq-
        Muliammad b. Ja`far b. al-Zubayr-'Urwah-the Prophet's wife
        'A'ishah, who said: When the Messenger of God divided the cap-
        tives of the Banu al-Muglaliq, Juwayriyah bt. al-I;iarith fell to the
        share of Thabit b. Qays b. al-Shammas for to a cousin of his), and

          230. Ed. Cairo : "He said in a poem," reading ft sht'r, for ed. Leiden's fi safarihi.
        Parallel text of this and the following poem with variants: W, I, 408) IH, III, 293-94

        (tr. Guillaume, 492).
          231. Thus ed . Leiden (tha'artu bihi gahran ), al-Wagidi, In Hishim, and ed.

        Cairo read fthran ("I avenged Fihr with him"!. Since Fihr was one of the early
        members of Quraysh; the line would then refer to exacting vengeance for his

        brother, a member of Quraysh, from the Banu al-Najjar of Medina.

           232. Fari' was one of the fortresses of Medina, see p. 22, above.

[[p 82]]
The Events of the Year 6 57

she contracted with him for her freedom 233 She was a sweet,
beautiful woman who captivated anyone who looked at her. She
came to the Messenger of God seeking his help in the matter of her
contract. By God, as soon as I saw her at the door of my chamber, I
took a dislike to her, and I knew that he would see in her what I
saw. She went before him and said, "Messenger of God, I am
Juwayriyah, the daughter of al-I3arith b. Abi Qirar, the chief of his
tribesmen. You can see what misfortune has befallen me. I have
fallen to the share of ThAbit b. Qays b. al-Shammas (or his cousin)
and have contracted with him for my freedom. I have come to you
to ask your aid with my contract." He said to her, "Would you like
something better than that?" She said, "What is it, Messenger of
God?" He said, "I will pay your contract and marry you." She said,
"Yes, Messenger of God," and he said, "I do so." When the news
got out to the people that the Messenger of God had married
juwayriyah bt. al-Harith, they said, "Relatives by marriage of the
Messenger of God!" and they set free those in their possession.
When he married her, a hundred families of the Banu al-Muglaliq
were freed. I know of no woman who was a greater blessing to her
people than she.

                      An Account of the Lie234

According to In Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq, who
said: The Messenger of God then set out on his way back from that
journey (according to what my father Ishaq [b. Yasarj transmitted
to me from al-Zuhri-'Urwah-'A'ishah). When he was near Me-
dina ('A'ishah was along on that journey of his), the authors of the [1 S 18j
lie said about her what they said.

   233. Arabic katabathu 'ald nafsihd: she made a contract with him (written or
otherwise) that she would pay a certain sum as the price of herself and be free on
payment of it (cf. Lane, Lexicon, VII, 2590). The practice (called mukdtabah, "man-
umission by contract") is recommended by the Qur'an (2433) for any slave who
wishes it. Cf. Schacht, Introduction to Islamic Law, 42f., 129f., and E12,1, 30, S.V.
'Abd.

   234. Parallels: W, II, 426-401 IH, 111, 297-307 (tr. Guillaume, 493-99), al-
Bukh3ri, $al)i. (ed. Boulaq), V, 52; al-Tabari, Jdmi' al-baydn, XVIII, 68-77. Cf.
Stowasser, Women in the Qur'an, Traditions, and Interpretation, 94-95; and
Spellberg, Politics, Gender, and the Islamic Past, 61-99.

[[p 83]]
58 The Victory of Islam

115191    According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
        al-Zuhri-'Alqamah b. Waggas al-Laythi, Said b. al-Musayyab,235
        'Urwah b. al-Zubayr, and 'Ubaydallah b. 'Abdallah b. 'Utbah236 (al-
        Zuhri said, "Each transmitted to me part of this account, some
        remembering more of it than others, and I have assembled for you

        everything they transmitted to me").
          According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-

        Yahya b. 'Abbad b. 'Abdallah b. al-Zubayr-his father-'Aishah;

        also, (Muhammad b. Ishaq]-'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr b. Muhammad
        b. 'Amr b. Hazm.al-Ansari-'Amrah bt. 'Abd al-Rahman237-
        'A'ishah ((Muhammad b. Ishaq] said: "The report of each has been
        assembled in the account of 'A'ishah's story about herself, when
        the authors of the lie said about her what they said. Each con-
        tributed to her account as transmitted from all these people. Some
        of them relate what others do not. Each was a reliable informant
        concerning her, and each related about her what he had heard.")

           'A'ishah said: Whenever the Messenger of God planned a jour-
        ney, he had his wives draw lots among themselves; whichever
        one's lot came out, he took her with him. When the raid on the
        Banu al-Muslaliq took place, he had his wives draw lots as he used
        to do; my lot came out over theirs, and the Messenger of God took
        me along. Women in those days used to eat only enough to stay
        alive; they were not bloated with meat so as to become heavy.
        While my camel was being saddled, I would sit in my litter; then
        the men who were to bind my litter onto my camel would come
        and carry me: they would take hold of the bottom of the litter, lift
        it, and place me on the back of the camel. Then they would tie it
        with its ropes, take hold of the camel's head, and set out with it.

          235. Abu Muhammad Said b. al-Musayyab b. Hazn al- Makhzulml was bom in
        13/634 and died in 94/713 in Medina. He was a scholar of genealogy , history,
        traditions, and law and was closely connected with the caliph'Umar. Al-Zuhri was
        one of his students. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, IV, 84-88; GAS, I, 276.

          236. 'Ubaydallah b. 'Abdallah b. 'Utbah died in the 9o's/7o8- 18. See Ibn Hajar,
        Tahdhib, VII, 23-24, which quotes al-Tabari's favorable opinion of him.

           237. 'Amrah bt. 'Abd al-Rahmin b. Sa'd b. Zurirah al -An$arlyyah was highly
        regarded as a transmitter of material from 'A'ishah. The caliph 'Umar b. 'Abd
        al-'Aziz is said to have asked for a written collection of her reports from'A'ishah.
        She died in 98/716-17 (or later) at the age of seventy-seven . See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib,

        XII, 438-39.

[[p 84]]
The Events of the Year 6 59

   When the Messenger of God had finished with his journey on
that occasion, he turned back to return. When he was near Me-
dina, he made camp and, having spent part of the night there,
announced the departure. When the people had mounted, I went
out to attend to a need of mine.238 On my neck was a necklace of
mine with onyx beads from Zafar.239 When I was finished, it came
undone from my neck without my noticing. When I returned to
the encampment, I felt for it on my neck and did not find it. The
people had already begun to leave. I retraced my steps to the place
to which I had gone and looked for the necklace until I found it.
While I was away, the men who used to saddle the camel for me
came and finished saddling it. Assuming that I was in the litter as ji 52oj
usual, they took hold of the litter, lifted it up, and tied it onto the
camel, not doubting that I was in it. Then they took hold of the
camel's head and set out. When I came back to camp, not a soul
was there-the people had departed. So I wrapped myself in my
outer garment (jilbab) and lay down in the place to which I had
gone. I knew that if they missed me, they would return for me. By
God, while I was lying down, $afwan b. al-Mu'attal al-Sulami
passed by me-he had lagged behind away from the camp to at-
tend to a need of his and had not spent the night with the people in
camp. When he saw my form, he approached and stood near me
and recognized me, for he used to see me before the curtain (I ijab)
was imposed on us 241 When he saw me, he said, "'Surely we
belong to God, and to Him we return!'242-is it she who travels in
the litter of the Messenger of God?" I was wrapped up in my
garments. "What has caused you to stay behind?-may God have
mercy on you!" he asked, but I did not talk to him. Then he
brought the camel near and said, "Mount-may God have mercy
on you! "-and he kept back from me. I mounted, and he came and
took hold of the camel's head and set out with me, hastening in
pursuit of the party. By God, we did not overtake them, neither

  238. I. e., to relieve herself.
   239. The city of 7afar, near San'a' in Yemen (not to be confused with Zafar on
the coast of Oman ), was famous for its onyx. See Yaqut, Mujam al-buldbn, VI, 85-
86.
  240. Literally, "not a caller and not a responder."
  241. See note 96, above.
  242. See note 213, above.

[[p 85]]
6o The Victory of Islam

          was I was missed until morning. The people halted and, when
          they had settled down, the man came into view leading me. Then
          the authors of the lie said about me what they said, and the camp
          was disturbed; yet, by God, I knew nothing about it.

             Then we came to Medina, and I immediately came down with a
          severe complaint. Nothing about the matter reached me, but the
           story reached the Messenger of God and my parents. My parents
           said not a word to me about it; however, I missed some of the
[1521] kindness toward me of the Messenger of God. Whenever I com-
          plained of an illness, he would be merciful to me and treat me
          with kindness, but he did not do so at the time of that complaint of
           mine, and I missed it. When he came to see me while my mother
          was nursing me, he would say "How is she?" and nothing more.
          Finally, troubled by his apparent coldness toward me, I said, "Mes-
           senger of God, I wish you would allow me to move to my
          mother's, so that she could nurse me." "Do what you like," he
           said. So I moved to my mother's, knowing nothing of what had
          happened, and after some twenty days I recovered from my pain.

             We were Arab folk. We did not have in our houses these privies
           that the foreigners have; we loathed and disliked such things.
          Instead, we would go out into the fields of Medina. The women
          would go out every night to attend to their needs. One night I went
           out to attend to my needs along with Umm Mislay, the daughter
           of Abu Ruhm b. al-Muttalib b. 'Abd Manaf (her mother, the mater-
           nal aunt of Abu Bakr, was the daughter of $akhr b. 'Amir b. Ka'b b.
           Sa'd b. Taym). By God, as she was walking with me, she tripped
           over her garment and said, "May Mislay stumble and fall!" I said,
           "By the life of God, what a bad thing to say about an Emigrant who
           was present at Badr!"243 She replied, "Daughter of Abu Bakr,
           hasn't the news reached you?" "What news?" I asked. She told me
           what the authors of the lie had been saying. I asked, "Has this
           really happened?" "Yes," she said, "by God, it really has hap-
           pened." By God, I was unable to do what I had to do. I went back
           and kept crying until I thought that the crying would split my
           liver. I said to my mother: "May God forgive you. People spoke the
           things they spoke and you heard what you heard, yet you mention
[1522] nothing of it tome!" She said: "Dear daughter, take it lightly. By

                  243. See note gi, above.

[[p 86]]
The Events of the Year 6 61

God, whenever a beautiful woman married to a man who loves her                       [x523]
has rival wives, they always gossip about her, and people do the
same."

   The Messenger of God stood up among the people to preach
without my knowing about it. He said: "People, why are some
men hurting me regarding my family and saying falsehood about
theml244 By God, I know only good about them. People are saying
this about a man about whom, by God, I know only good and who
has never entered any of my apartments except in my company."

   The main offense lay with 'Abdallah b. Ubayy b. Salul and some
men of al-Khazraj, along with what Mislah and Hamnah bt. Jahsh
had said. I lamnah's sister, Zaynab bt. Jahsh, was the wife of the
Messenger of God.245 I lamnah therefore spread her rumors trying
to hurt me for the sake of her sister Zaynab bt. Jahsh, and I became
distressed by it.

   When the Messenger of God had finished his speech, Usayd b.
Hudayr, a member of the Banu 'Abd al-Ashhal,246 said: "Mes-
senger of God, if they belong to al-Aws, we will take care of them
for you; if they belong to our brothers, al-Khazraj, give us your
command. By God, they deserve to have their heads cut off!"

   Sa'd b. Ubadah stood up-previously he was thought to be a
righteous man-and said: "You lie! By God's life, their heads shall
not be cut off. By God, you have said these words only because you
already know that they belong to al-Khazraj; had they been your
tribesmen, you would not have said it." Usayd said: "You lie, by
God's life! But you are a hypocrite arguing for hypocrites." The
men jumped up at each other, so that violence almost took place
between the tribes of al-Aws and al-Khazraj.

  The Messenger of God descended [from the pulpit] and came in
to see me. He called 'Ali b. Abi Talib and Usamah b. Zayd and
asked their advice. Usamah spoke in praise, saying, "Messenger of
God, they are your family, and we know nothing but good about
them,247 and this is lying and falsehood." As for 'Ali, he said:

   244. The pronoun " them" is in the feminine plural, indicating that " my family"

is a polite way of saying "my wives."
  245. IH adds: "None of his wives but she could rival me in status. As for Zaynab

herself, God protected her, but Ilamnah bt. Jahsh spread her rumors.... "
  246. The Banu 'Abd al-Ashhal were a division of al-Aws.
  247. As before, "them" (feminine plural) refers to Muhammad's wives.

[[p 87]]
62 The Victory of Islam

[r 524]  "Messenger of God, women are many, and you can get a replace.
         ment. Ask the slave girl; she will tell you the truth." So the Mes-
         senger of God called Barirah to question her. `Ali went up to her

         and struck her hard, saying, "Speak the truth to the Messenger of

         God." "By God," she said, "I know nothing but good. The only
         fault I ever found in 'A'ishah is that, when I was kneading my
         dough and ordered her to watch it, she fell asleep over it, and the
         pet sheep248 came and ate it."

           Then the Messenger of God came into my room. My parents
         were with me, along with a woman from the Angar. I was crying,
         and she was crying with me. Having seated himself, he praised and
         lauded God and then said: "'A'ishah, as you know, people have
         been saying things. Fear God, and if you have committed an evil
         deed such as people say, repent to God, for God accepts repentance
         from his servants." By God, as soon as he said that, my tears
         diminished, so that I felt nothing of them. I waited for my parents

         to reply to the Messenger of God, but they did not speak. I swear to
         God, I considered myself too lowly and unimportant for God, who
         is mighty and exalted, to reveal a Qur'an249 about me to be recited
         in mosques and used in worship; but I hoped that the Messenger of
         God would see something in a dream whereby God, knowing my
         innocence, would refute [the accusations] about me or that he
         would be given a message. As for a Qur'an to be revealed about me,
         by God, I considered myself too lowly for that.

           When I saw that my parents did not speak, I said, "Will you not
         reply to the Messenger of God?" They said to me, "By God, we do
         not know what to reply to him." (I swear to God, I know of no
         family that suffered what the family of Abu Bakr suffered during
         those days.) When they were unable to speak on my behalf, my
         eyes filled with tears and I wept. "By God," I said, "I will never
         repent to God of that which you have spoken of. By God, if I
         confess to what people are saying, so that you believe me-and
         God knows that I am innocent of it-I shall be saying what did not

           248. Arabic: ddiin, an animal (usually a sheep or goat) that one keeps in one's

         house.
            249. I.e., a Qur'anic revelation, a single passage of Qur an to be recited in liturgi-

         cal worship, see Bell and Watt, introduction to the Qar'dn, 135-36.

[[p 88]]
The Events of the Year 6 63

happen; and if I deny what you are saying, you will not believe
me." Then I tried to recall the name of Jacob, but I could not
remember it; instead, I said: "As the father of Joseph said, 'Comely
patience ! And God it is whose help is to be sought in that which
you describe."1250

   By God, before the Messenger of God left the place where he was
sitting, there came over him from God what used to come over
him. They covered him with his garment and set a leather cushion
under his head. As for me, when I saw that happen, by God I did
not become very frightened or troubled, for I knew that I was
innocent and that God would not wrong me. As for my parents, by
the One who holds 'A'ishah's soul in His hand, as soon as the
Messenger of God came to, I thought their souls would depart for
fear that confirmation of what people had said would come from
God.

   The Messenger of God came to and sat up. [Drops of sweat) were 115251
falling from him like silver beads on a day of hail. He began wiping
the perspiration from his brow and said: "Rejoice, 'A'ishah! God
has revealed your innocence ." I said, "To God's praise and your251
blame!" Then he went out to the people and preached to them. He
recited to them the Qur'an that God had revealed concerning me.
He gave orders concerning Mistah b. Uthathah, Hassan b. Thabit,
and Hamnah bt. Jahsh (they were among those who had spoken
evil openly) and they received their prescribed flogging 252

   According to Ibn IIumayd--Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
his father [Isl}aq b. Yasarl-some men of the Banu al-Najjar: Umm
Ayyub, the wife of Abu Ayyub Khalid b. Zayd, said to her husband,

   25o. Qur'an 12:18.
   251. The pronoun is plural.
   252. Literally: "they were beaten with their hadd." Hadd, meaning "hindrance,
impediment, limit, boundary," is used in the plural in the Qur 'an to designate the
restrictive ordinances of God (liuddd Allah ). In Islamic jurisprudence, liadd is a
technical term for the punishment of certain acts that have been forbidden or
sanctioned by punishments in the Qur 'an and have thereby become crimes against
religion. These are unlawful intercourse (zinc), false accusation of unlawful inter-
course (gadhf), wine drinking (khamr), theft (sariqah ), and highway robbery (qaF'
al-fariq). The punishment for false accusation of unlawful intercourse was set at
eighty lashes by Qur 'an 24:4, which some say was revealed on this occasion (see al-
Tabari, 1ami' al-bayan, XVIII, 59-6o, ad loc.). See E12, s. vv. Hadd, 1Cadhf; Schacht,
Introduction to Islamic Law, 179.

[[p 89]]
64 The Victory of Islam

          "Abu Ayyub, don't you hear what people are saying about
          'A'ishah?" "Yes," he replied, "and it is falsehood. Would you,
          Umm Ayyub, do such a thing?" She said, "No, by God, I wouldn't
          do it." "And 'A'ishah," he said, "is better than you, by God!"

             When the Qur'an was revealed, God mentioned the authors of
          the slander who spoke their evil, saying: "Those who came with
          the slander are a band of you"-and the rest of the verse.253 This
          refers to Hassan b. Thabit and his companions who said what they
          said. Then God said, "Why, when you heard it, did the believers,
          men and women, not of their own account think good
           thoughts?"-and the rest of the verse.254 That is, [why did they
          not speak ] as Abu Ayyub and his wife spoke ? Then He said:
           "When you received it on your tongues "-and the rest of the
          verse.255

             When this was revealed concerning'A'ishah and those who had
          said what they said about her, Abu Bakr, who had been supporting
          Mistab because of his close kinship with him and his poverty,
115261 said, "By God, I will never support Misiali with anything or help
           him in any way after what he said about `A'ishah, making us suffer
           as we did." Then God revealed concerning this: "Let not those of
          you who possess bounty and plenty swear off giving kinsmen"-
           and the rest of the verse 256 Abu Bakr therefore said, "By God, I
          want God to forgive me"-and he restored Mislal }'s support that
           he had been paying him, saying, "By God, I will never withdraw it
           from him."

             $afwan b . al-Mu'attal advanced on Hassan b. Thabit with a
           sword when he learned what Hassan was saying about him. In
           addition, Hassan had composed poetry with insinuations against

                25 3. Qur'an 24: 11: "Those who came with the slander are a band of you; do not
             reckon it evil for you , rather it is good for you. Every man of them shall have the sin
             that he has earned charged to him; and whosoever of them took upon himself the
             greater part of it, him there awaits a mighty chastisement."

                254. Qur'an 24: 12, which continues: "and say, 'This is a manifest calumny'?"
                255. Qur'an 24:15: "When you received it on your tongues , and were speaking
             with your mouths that whereof you had no knowledge , and reckoned it a light
             thing, and with God it was a mighty thing."
                256. Qur'an 24: 22: "Let not those of you who possess bounty and plenty swear
             off giving kinsmen and the poor and those who emigrate in the way of God; but let
             them pardon and forgive. Do you not wish that God should forgive you? God is All-
             forgiving, All-compassionate."

[[p 90]]
The Events of the Year 6 65

Ibn al-Mu'attal and the Arabs of Mudar257 who had become Mus-
lims. He had said:258

The [wearers of the] jilbab259 have become strong and                                   [1527]
     numerous,
     and Ibn al-Furay'ah260 has become [as alone as] an
     [ostrich's] egg in the land.261

Bereft of her son is the mother of the one whose companion I
     become,262
     or [of anyone who] becomes caught in the claws of a lion.

For my victim, the one whom I take early in the morning,
     no blood money shall be paid and no revenge [shall be
     taken].

Not even the sea, when the wind blows from the north,
     so that it becomes heaped up and spatters the shore with
     foam,

Is more overwhelming ever than I, when you see me
     amaze with (my] rage263 like a cloud that brings amazing
     [amounts of] hail.

$afwan b. al-Mu`aXlal therefore advanced on him with a sword,
struck him, and said ( according to Ibn Humayd -Salamah-
Muliammad b. Isl7aq):

   257. I.e., the Emigrants of Quraysh. MuSiar was a large grouping of North Ara-
bian tribes including QaysAylin, Hudhayl, Khuzaymah, Asad, Kinanah, Quraysh,
pabbah, and Tamim. See Eli Suppl., s.v. Rabi'a and Mudar. Hassan b. Thabit
belonged to al-Khazraj of Medina.

   258. Parallels : Aghdni, IV, 11-13 (with narrative of the circumstances of the
poem's composition, variant readings, and six additional lines )) Diwdn, I, 284-86
and II, 212-13 (twelve verses and extensive comment ); W, 11, 436) IH, III, 304-5.
See also W. Arafat, "A Controversial Incident."

   259. See note 219. An alternate reading , preferred by Arafat in his edition of the
Diwdn is khaldbis, "a mixed multitude, scum."

  260. I.e., Ilassin b. Thibit, whose mother was named al-Puray'ah. Cf. Aghdni,

Iv, 2.

   261. Arabic bay/at al-balad is a common metaphor for isolation or insignifi-

cance, although it can also mean something precious . See Arafat, "A Controversial

Incident," 197.
  262. Ed. Cairo (change of vocalization) : "you become."

   263. The interpretation follows the suggestion in the notes to the Diwdn of

Hassan b. Thibit concerning the meaning of fard, yafrf. See Diwdn, II, 212-13,

Lane, Lexicon, VI, 2391.

[[p 91]]
66 The Victory of Islam

         Receive the sword's edge from me: I am
                a young man who, when I am satirized, am no poet.

             According to Ibn IIumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
          Muhammad b. Ibrahim b. al-Harith al-Taymi:m4 Thabit b. Qays b.
          al-Shammas (a member of the Banu al -Harith266 b. al-Khazraj)
          assaulted $afwan b. al-Mu'attal because of his having struck
          Hassan, and, having tied $afwan's hands to his neck, set out with
          him for the territory of the Banu al-Harith b. al-Khazraj. 'Abdallah
          b. Rawahah met him. "What is this?" he asked. Thabit replied:
           "Hasn't the striking of Hassan b. Thabit with the sword made you
          indignant? By God, I think it nearly killed him!" 'Abdallah b.
          Rawahah said to him, "Does the Messenger of God know anything
          about what you have done?" He replied, "No, by God." 'Abdallah
          said: "You have acted too boldly. Release the man!" So Thabit b.
          Qays released him. They came to the Messenger of God and told
          him what had happened. He called on Hassan and $afwan b. al-
          Mu'attal [to speak]. Ibn al-Mu'attal said, "Messenger of God, he
           insulted me and satirized me, so that rage overcame me and I
           struck him." The Messenger of God said to Hassan , "Hassan, have
          you treated my own tribesmen harshly because God has guided
[1528) them to Islam? " Then he said, "Hassan, treat wel1266 the one who
           struck you." "I will, Messenger of God," he answered.

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
           Muhammad b. Ibrahim b. al-Harith : In compensation for [the
           blow], the Messenger of God gave [Hassan] Bayraha,267 which to-
           day is the palace of the Banu Hudaylah in Medina. It had been the
           property of Abu Talbah b. Sahl, who donated it to the Messenger
           of God, who in turn gave it to Hassan for his blow. He also gave
           him Sirin, a Coptic slave girl, and she bore him'Abd al-Rahman b.
           Hassan.

              'A'ishah used to say: They inquired about $afwan b. al-Mu'attal

                264. Muhammad b. lbrahim b. al-Harith al-Taymi , died ca. 120/738, was the
             grandson of an Emigrant. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 5-7.

                265. The tribal name is abbreviated here to Balharith . I have normalized it to
             Bane al-Harith throughout, which is the form used later in the sentence.

                  266. Arabic: al}sin yd Ifassdn . Muhammad is punning on Hass4n 's name, which
               comes from the same root as the verb ahsana , "do good, treat well."

                267. Variant !al-Wagidi, Aghdni): Bayraha'.

[[p 92]]
The Events of the Year 6 67

and found him to be an impotent man who had no intercourse
with women. He was killed afterward as a martyr [in battle].

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Abd al-
Waliid b. Ifamzah 268 'A'ishah's account was given on the Pil-
grimage of Fulfillment.269

  According to Abu Ja 'far (al-Tabari]: The Messenger of God
stayed the months of Ramadan and Shawwal in Medina. He set
out to perform the lesser pilgrimage ('umrah) in Dhu al-Qa'dah of
the year 6.270

The Prophet's Lesser Pilgrimage from Which the
 Polytheists Turned Him Back : The Story of al-

                     Hudaybiyah271

According to Ibn Humayd-al-IIakam b. Bashir272-'Umar b.                             ( 1529]
Dharr al-Hamdalu-273-Mujahid:274 The Prophet made three
lesser pilgrimages, all of them in [the month of] Dhu al -Qa'dah,

returning from each of them to Medina.
  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah -Ibn Ishaq, who said: The

Prophet set out to make the lesser pilgrimage in Dhu al-Qa'dah,

not intending to make war. He had called on the Arabs and Bed-
ouin desert dwellers who were around him to help by setting out

   268. On the Medinan transmitter 'Abd al-Wibid b. Hamzah b. 'Abdallih b. al-
Zubayr al-Asadi Abu Hamzah see In Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 434.

   269. Arabic: 'umrat al-qa¢a', the lesser pilgrimage that Muhammad performed
in 7/629 (called the Pilgrimage of Fulfillment because it took the place of the
pilgrimage he had been prevented from making). See pp. 133-38, below.

  270. Ramadan of A.H. 6 began on 14 January 628, Shawwil on 13 February, and
Dhu al-Qadah on 13 March.

  271. Parallels: W, II, 571 -633; IH, 111, 308 -27 (tr. Guillaume, 499-51o). Al-
Hudaybiyah was a small town with a well one stage from Mecca and nine stages
from Medina . It was on the edge of the Meccan Karam or sacred territory. See E12,
s.v. al-Hudaybiya.

  272. Perhaps the same as the Kufan scholar al -Hakam b . Bishr b. Sulaymin at-
Nahdi whom In Hajar lists as one of the sources consulted by Muhammad b.
Humayd. See In klajar, Tahdhib, II, 424.

   273. 'Umar b. Dharr b. 'Abdallah b . Zurirah al-Hamdanl was a Kufan who died

CA. 153 /770. See Ibn I;iajar, Tahdhib, VII, 444-45.
   274. Abu al-IHajj6j Mujahid b. Jabr al -Makki was born ca. 21/642 in Mecca and

died in 104/722. He was a student of Ibn al -'Abbas and author of a commentary on

the Qur'an. See Ibn I3ajar, Tahdhib, X, 42-44 ; GAS, 1, 29.

[[p 93]]
68 The Victory of Islam

with him, for he feared that Quraysh would oppose him with
fighting or turn him away from the [Holy] House275-which they
did. Many of the Bedouins were slow in coming to him. The Mes-
senger of God, the Emigrants and Ansar who were with him, and
the Arabs who joined him set out. He took sacrificial animals with
him and put on pilgrim garb276 so that people would have no
apprehension about his fighting and would know that he had
come only to visit and venerate the House.

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
Muhammad b. Muslim al-Zuhri-'Urwah b. al-Zubayr-al-
Miswar b. Makhramah277 and Marwan b. al-Hakam,278 who said:
The Messenger of God set out in the Year of al-Hudaybiyah, in-
tending to visit the House, not intending to fight. He drove with
him seventy fattened camels. The party numbered seven hundred
men; each fattened camel was for ten men.

  However, according to Ibn 'Abd al-A'1a279 (who transmitted his
report to us from Muhammad b. Thawr280-Ma'mar2sl-al-
Zuhri-'Urwah b. al-Zubayr-al-Miswar b. Makhramah); and ac-
cording to Ya'qub282 (who transmitted his report from Yahya b.

   275. Arabic: al-bayt, the Ka'bah.
   276. Arabic ahrama: "he entered the state of ihrdm," a state of ritual consecra-
tion marked by the wearing of a simple two -piece garment and abstention from
cutting the hair, shedding blood, sexual relations, and a number of other activities.
See E12, s.v. Ihrim.
   277. Al-Miswar b. Makhramah b. Nawfal al-Zuhri was the nephew of 'Abd al-
Rahmin b. 'Awf through his mother. Born in 1 /623-24 in Mecca, he was taken to
Medina in 8/629 -30 and died in 64 /683-84 in Mecca. He was a close friend of
'Umar. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 151-f2.
   278. Marwin b. al-Hakam b . Abi al-'A$ b. Umayyah, was governor of Medina
under Mu'awiyah and became caliph in 64 /684, reigning nine months . He died in
Ramadan 65 /685. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 91-92k E12, s.v.
   279. Muhammad b. 'Abd al-A'11 al-$an'ani (cf. P. 74, below, where the same
isnad occurs in fuller form) died in 245 /859 in al-Ba$rah, where al-Tabarl met him.
See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 289) Rosenthal, General Introduction, 2o.
   280. Muhammad b. Thawr al-$ an'ani died ca. 190/805. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib,
IX, 87.
   281. Abu'Urwah Ma'mar b. Rashid, born in 96/714 and died in 154/770, a pupil
of al-Zuhri, was a historian and traditionist. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 243-46,
GAS, I, ego-91.
   282. I.e., Ya'qub b. Ibrahim al- Dawragi (cf. the fuller version of the same isndd at
p. 74, below ] was born in 166/782 and died in 252/866. See al-Khatib al-Baghdadi,
Ta'rikh Baghdad, XIV, 277-8o; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 381-82.

[[p 94]]
The Events of the Year 6 69

Sa'id283-'Abdallah b: Mubarak284-Ma'mar-al-Zuhri-'Urwah                                  [1530]
b. al-Zubayr-al-Miswar b. Makhramah and Marwan b. al-
Hakam, both of whom said): The Messenger of God set out from
al-Hudaybiyah with between thirteen and nineteen hundred285 of
his companions. (The [same] report then follows.)

  According to al-Hasan b. Yahya-Abu 'Amir [al-'Agadi]-
'Ikrimah b. 'Ammar al-Yamami-Iyas b. Salamah-his father
[Salamah b. al-Akwa'], who said: We came to al-Hudaybiyah with
the Messenger of God. We were fourteen hundred.286

  According to Yusuf b. Musa al-Qallan2S7--Hisham b. 'Abd al-
Malik and Said b. Shurahbil a1-Misri-al-Layth b. Sa'd al-
Mi§ri288-Abu al-Zubayr289-Jabir,290 who said: On the day of al-
Hudaybiyah we were one thousand and four hundred.

  According to Muhammad b. Sa'd291-his father-his paternal

   283. Yahya b. Said b. Farrukh al-Qallan, who was born in 120/737 and died in
198/813, was a pupil of Sufyan al-Thawri. See al-Khatib al-Baghdidi, Ta'rikh
Baghdad, XIV, 135-44; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 216-20; GAS, I, 75.

   284. Abu 'Abd al-Rahman 'Abdallah b. al-Mubarak b. Waft al-HanTali a!-

Tamiml, who was born in 118 /736 and died in 181 /797, was a traditionist, histo-
rian, and Sufi. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 382-87; E12, s.v. Ibn al-Mubarak; GAS, I,

95.
   285. Following the text of ed. Leiden (fi bid'a 'ashrata mi'atan). The reading of

ed. Cairo (ft bid' ata'ashara wa-mi'atin, "with between thirteen and nineteen and
one hundred," i.e., with between 113 and 119) seems to be a misprint.

   286. For ed. Leiden's arba'a 'ashrata mi'atan ( 14 hundred), ed. Cairo reads ar-
ba'ata 'ashara wa-mi'atun ( 14 and a hundred, i.e., 114).

   287. Yusuf b. Musa b. Rashid b. Bilil al-Qa51an Abu Ya'qub was born in al-
Kufah, lived in Rayy, then went to Baghdad, where he died in $afar of 253/867. See
Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 425.

   288. Al-Layth b. Sa'd b. 'Abd al-Rabman al-Fahmi Abu al-Harith (born in Qal-
qashandah, Egypt, in 94/713, and died in 175/791) was one of the most famous
traditionists and jurists of his time. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 459- 65; E12, s.v.

al-Layth b. Sa'd; GAS, 1, 520.
  289. Abu al-Zubayr Muhammad b. Muslim b. Tadrus al-Asada, a traditionist,

died in 126/743 or 128. See Ibn Uajar, Tahdhib, IX, 440-43) GAS, I, 86-87.
  290. I.e., the companion of the Prophet, Jabir b. 'Abdallah b. 'Amr al-Khazraji,

one of the Medinans who swore allegiance to Muhammad at the first Pledge of
'Aqabah. See GAS, I, 85.

   291. Abu 'Abdallah Muhammad b. Sa'd b. Mani' al-Bayri al-Zuhri (known as

"Kitib al-Wagidi" after his teacher) was born in al -Bagrah in 168/784 and died in

230/845 in Baghdad . He was the author of Kitab al-fabagat al-kabir, containing
biographies of the Prophet and of his companions. See Ibn Uajar, Tahdhib, Ix, 182-

83; GAS, I, 300-301.

[[p 95]]
70 The Victory of Islam

[1531)  uncle-his father-his father-Ibn'Abbas,292 who said: The peo-
        ple who swore allegiance under the tree were one thousand five

        hundred and twenty-five.
          According to Ibn al-Muthanna293-Abu Dawud294-Shu'-

        bah295-'Amr b. Murrah,296 who said: I heard 'Abdallah b. Abi
        Awfa say: "On the Day of the Tree we were one thousand three
        hundred. Aslam297 was an eighth of the Emigrants."

          According to Ibn I3umayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
        al-A'mash298-Abu Sufyan299-jabir b. 'Abdallah al-An$ari, who

        said: We, the people of al-I Iudaybiyah, were fourteen hundred.300
          According to al-Zuhri: The Messenger of God set out. When he

        was at 'Usfan, Bishr b. Sufyan al-Ka'bi met him and said: "Mes-
        senger of God, Quraysh have heard about your journey and have
        gone out with their'foals and dams.'30' They have put on leopard
        skins and encamped at Dhu Tuwa,302 swearing by God that you
        shall never enter the city in defiance of them. Khalid b. al-

           292. Abdallah b. 'Abbas (or al-'Abbas), a cousin of the Prophet, was born three
        years before the Hijrah. He spent much of his life at al-Ta'if as a scholar and
        authority on Qur'an interpretation. He died in 68/687 (or in 69 or 701. See GAS, I,

        25-28, E12, s.v. 'Abd Allah b. al-'Abbas.
           293. Muhammad b. al-Muthanni Abu Musa al-Bagri died ca . 252/866 . See Ibn

        Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 425-27.
           294. Abu DAwud SulaymAn b. DAwud b. al-JArud al-TayAlisi was born in '33/750

        and died in 203/818 or 204. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IV, 182-861 GAS, 1, 97-98.
           295. Shu'bah b. al-13ajjaj al-Bagri died in 160/776. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IV,

        233-34.
           296. Amr b. Murrah b. 'Abdallah al-Muradi al-Kufi died ca. 118/736. See Ibn

        Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 102-3.
          297. Aslam was a division of KhuzA 'ah with territory to the west of Medina and

        Mecca. On the Emigrant status of members of other non -Medinan tribes than
        Quraysh who adhered to Muhammad, see Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 86.

           298. Sulayman b. Mihran al-Asadi al-A'mash died in 148 /765. See al-Dhahabi,
        Tadhkirah, 1 541 Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 123.

           299. For Abu Sufyan b. Said b. al-Mughirah al-Thagafi, see Ibn Hajar, Tahdhfb,

        XII,1121 GAS, 1, 63-64, 85.
           300. For ed. Leiden's arba'a 'ashrata mi'atan ( 14 hundred(, ed. Cairo reads ar-

        ba'ata ashara wa-mi'atan ( 14 and a hundred, I.e., 1141.
           301. Arabic: al-'tidh al-matafil, literally, "jcamelsj that have recently foaled and

        (camels] that have foals with them ." The commentators take the phrase as figura.
        tive for "women and children" ; see Lane, Lexicon, V, 2193, s.v. 'd'idh.

           302. At place near Mecca, sometimes vocalized DhuTawa, not the same as the
        valley where Moses is said to have met God (Qur'an 20: 12, 79 : 161) see YAqut,

        Mu'jam al-bulddn, VI, 64.

[[p 96]]
The Events of the Year 6 71

Walld303 is with their horsemen, whom they have sent forward to
Kura' al-Ghamim."304

   According to Abu Ja'far [al-Tabari] : Some have said that Khalid
b. al-Walid on that day was with the Messenger of God as a
Muslim.

      A Report That Khalid b. al-Walid Was Already a
                                 Muslim

According to In Humayd-Ya'qub al-Qummi305 -Ja'far (i.e., Ibn
Abi al-Mughirah)306-Ibn Abza,307 who said: When the Mes-
senger of God set out with camels for sacrifice and reached Dhu al-
Hulayfah,308 'Umar said to him, "Messenger of God, will you
without arms or horses enter the territory of people who are at war
with you? " So the Prophet sent to Medina and left no horses or
weapons there untaken. When he approached Mecca, they pro-
hibited him from entering; so he marched to Min009 and halted
there. His spy brought him word, saying, "'Ikrimah b. Abi Jahl has
come out against you with five hundred men." The Messenger of
God said to Khalid b. al-Walid, "Khalid, here is your paternal
uncle's son come against you with horsemen ." Khalid said, "I am
the sword of God and the sword of His Messenger!"-he received
the name Sword of God on that day-"Messenger of God, direct
me wherever you wish! " He sent him in command of horsemen,
and he met 'Ikrimah in the canyon and routed him, so that he
drove 'Ikrimah back into the walled gardens of Mecca. 'Ikrimah
returned again, and KhAlid routed him, driving him back into the

   303. On the later military career of Khalid b . al-Walid see E12, s.v.
   304. See note 187, above.
   305. Ya'qub b. 'Abdallah al-Qummi died in 174/790. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, XI,
390-91.
  306. Ja'far b. Abi al-Mughirah al-Khuzi'i al-Qummi is listed without dates in
In Hajar, Tahdhib, II, rob.
  307. 'Abd al-Rabman b. Abza is listed without exact dates in Ibn Hajar, Tah-
dhib, VI, 132-33.
  308. Dhu al-Iiulayfah is six or seven miles from Medina on the way to Meccaj
see Yaqut, Mu'jam al-buldan, III, 329.
   309. MinA is located in a narrow valley about five miles east of Mecca and lies on
the traditional pilgrimage route between Mecca and 'ArafAt. See Ell, s.v. Mina.

[[p 97]]
72 The Victory of Islam

          walled gardens of Mecca. 'Ikrimah returned a third time, and
[15321 Khalid routed him, so that he drove him back into the walled

          gardens of Mecca . God revealed concerning him: "It is He who
          restrained their hands from you, and your hands from them, in the
          hollow of Mecca, after He made you victors over them"-until
          the words "painful punishment . "310 Having made the Prophet
          victor over them, God restrained him from them on account of
          remnants of the Muslims who remained in Mecca after He had
          made Muhammad victor over the Meccans; for God did not want
           the horsemen to trample them unwittingly.

             Resumption of the account of Ibn Ishaq: The Messenger of God
           said: "Woe to Quraysh! War has eaten them up! What would they
          lose if they left me to deal with the rest of the Arabs? If the Arabs
           defeat me, that will be what they want. If God makes me prevail
           over [the Arabs], [Quraysh) can enter Islam en masse; or, if they do
           not, they can fight, having regained their strength. What do
           Quraysh think? By God, I shall not cease to strive against them for
           the sake of that with which God has sent me until God makes it
          prevail or this side of my neck becomes separated ."311 Then he
           said, "Who is a man who will lead us forth on a way other than the
           one on which they are?"

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Abdallah b.
           Abi Bakr: A man from Aslam said, "I will, Messenger of God." He
           took them on a rough and rugged path among canyons . When they
           emerged from it-it was exhausting for the Muslims-and
           reached level ground at the end of the valley, the Messenger of
           God said to the people, "Say, 'We ask God to forgive us, and we
           repent to him."' They did this. The Messenger of God said, "By
           God, this is the [petition for] 'putting down' [a heavy burden of

                  310. Qur'an 48 :24-2s . The passage continues : "God sees the things you do.
               They are the ones who disbelieved , and barred you from the Holy Mosque and the
               offering, detained so as not to reach its place of sacrifice . If it had not been for
               certain men believers and certain women believers whom you knew not, lest you
               should trample them, and there befall you guilt unwittingly on their account (that
               God may admit into His mercy whom He will ), had they been separated clearly,
               then We would have chastised the unbelievers among them with a painful
               chastisement."

                311. I.e., until death; see Lane, Lexicon, N, r4o9.

[[p 98]]
The Events of the Year 6 73

sin]312 that was offered to the Children of Israel and which they                          [15331
did not say."

  According to Ibn Shihab [al-Zuhril: Then the Messenger of God
gave orders to the people, saying, "Turn right, amid the salt-
bush,313 on a path that will bring [the army] out over al-Murar
Pass-314 to the descent of al-Hudaybiyah below Mecca." So the
army traveled that path. When the horsemen of Quraysh saw the
dust of the army and that the Messenger of God had turned away
from their path, they galloped back to Quraysh. The Messenger of
God set out, but when he entered al-Murar Pass, his camel
kneeled down. The people said, "She has balked." "She has not
balked," he said, "and that is not her nature; but the One who
restrained the elephant from Mecca has restrained her.315 I will
grant to Quraysh any matter to which they invite me today asking
me to show kindness to kindred." Then he told the people to halt.
He was told, "Messenger of God, there is no water in the valley for
us to halt by." So he took an arrow out of his quiver and gave it to
one of his companions; the man went down into an old well,
inserted the arrow into the middle of it, and the water flowed
abundantly, so that the people quenched their thirst and halted
there.

   312. Arabic: a1-biFfatu allati 'uri4lat 'ala Ban!isra 'il. The consonants h. 1.h (read

as billatun) occur in Qur'an 2:58 and 7: 161, where God commands the Children of
Israel to say the word b . f.h (bif fatun) as a sign of humility or repentance. The word
caused difficulty; a few commentators even suggested that it was a foreign word,
though curiously none seems to have referred to Hebrew bee ' "sin," or to bala'ah
and haftat, "sin, sin offering" (see Tabarl, Jami' al-bayan, I, 237-39). Most ex-
plained it as a noun derived from the verb ball, "set down (e.g., a load )," and as
meaning "a petition for the putting down of a heavy burden from one; or, of the
heavy burden of sin " (see Lane, Lexicon, II, 592). James Bellamy suggests reading

khif'atan ( this involves no change in the underlying unpointed text of the Qur'an,

where the dots distinguishing b and kh were not written and hamzah was not

indicated). Grammatically, the word would be a ma$dar to an understood finite
verb: kha;i'na khif'atan, "we have truly sinned" (cf. Bellamy, "Some Proposed

Emendations," 566-67).
  313. Arabic: bamd, any of a variety of shrubs with salty leaves on which camels

can feed; see Lane, Lexicon, II, 644.
  314. Thaniyyat al-Murar (Bitter-Bush Pass) is mentioned by Yaqut (Mu'jam al-

buldan, VIII, 3) but not located precisely.
   315. Ca. A.D. 570 (the year of Muhammad 's birth), God is said to have thwarted

an attack on Mecca that included an elephant : the elephant is said to have balked
at advancing toward Mecca (see al-Tabarl, I, 941). The event is commemorated in

Sura xo5 of the Qur 'an. See 812, s.v. al-Fil.

[[p 99]]
74 The Victory of Islam

[1534]    According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Isliaq-a
        person of learning-a man from Aslam: The person who went
        down into the old well with the arrow of the Messenger of God
        was Najiyah316 b. 'Umayr b. Ya'mar b. D "grim. He was the driver of
        the sacrificial camels of the Messenger of God.

          A certain person of learning alleged to me that al-Bare' b.
        'Azib317 used to say, "I was the one who went down with the
        arrow of the Messenger of God."

          Aslam recited some verses of poetry that Najiyah composed,
        [saying,] "We thought he [viz. Najiyah] was the one who went
        down with the arrow of the Messenger of God." Aslam alleged
        that a slave girl from the Amer came with her bucket while Na-
        jiyah was in the well drawing water for the people. She said:

        O drawer of water, my bucket is near you:
             I saw the people praising you,

        Speaking well of you, and glorifying you.

        Najiyah replied while he was in the well drawing water for the
        people:

        A Yemeni slave girl knows
             that I am the water drawer and that my name is NAjiyah:

        Many a broad, blood-sprinkling wound
             have I struck under the breast of the enemy.

          According to Muhammad b. 'Abd al-A'la al -$an'ani-
        Muhammad b. Thawr--Ma'mar-al-Zuhri-'Urwah (b. al-
        Zubayr]-al-Miswar b. Makhramah; and according to Ya'qub b.
        Ibrahim-Yahya b. Said al-Qallan-'Abdallah b. al-Mubarak-
        Ma'mar-al-Zuhri-'Urwah-al-Miswar b . Makhramah and Mar-
        wan b. al-Hakam, who said: The Messenger of God halted at the
        edge of al-I;Iudaybiyah at a seasonal pool with a little water. The
        people were able to draw only small amounts of water before ex-
        hausting it, and so they complained of thirst to the Messenger of
        God. He drew an arrow from his quiver and commanded them to

          P66.. IH, 111, 310, inserts "b. Jundab."
          317. For the later life of al-Bare ' b. 'Azib b. al-Harith al-Awsi, who became a
        partisan of 'Ali and died in al-Kufah ca. 7z/69!, see EP, s.v. al-Bata' b. 'Azib.

[[p 100]]
The Events of the Year 6  75

set it in the pool. By God, the pool continued to flow abundantly                  [1 535)
for them until they departed from it.

   While they were there, Budayl b. Warga' al-Khuza'i came to
them with a band of his tribesmen from Khuza'ah. (They were the
faithful friends of the Messenger of God among the people of
Tihamah.) Budayl said: "I left Ka'b b. Lu'ayy and 'Amir b. Lu'ayy
encamped at the all-season wells of al-liudaybiyah with their
'foals and dams .'318 They intend to fight you and turn you away
from the House." The Prophet said: "We have not come to fight
anyone; we have come to make the lesser pilgrimage . War has
exhausted and harmed Quraysh. If they wish, we will grant them a
delay, and they can leave me to deal with the people 319 If I am
victorious, if they wish to enter that which the people enter320
they can do so; if not, they will have rested and recovered their
strength. If they refuse [the delay), by Him who holds my soul in
His hand, I shall fight them for the sake of this affair of mine until
the side of my neck becomes separated321 or God effects his com-
mand." Budayl said, "We will inform them of what you say."

   Budayl then set out and went to Quraysh and said: "We come to
you from this man. We have heard him make a statement-if you
want us to present it to you, we will." The foolish among them
said, "We have no need for you to say anything to us from him."
But someone intelligent among them said, "Present what you
have heard him say." So he said, "I heard him say the following"-
and he told them what the Prophet had said. 'Urwah b. Masud al-
Thagafi stood up and said, "My people, are you not the father?"
"Yes," they said. "And am I not the son?" he asked. "Yes," they
said322 "And do you doubt me?" he asked. "No," they said. "Do
you not know," he said, "that [once] I called on the people of
'Uka7323 for assistance; and, when they gave me no help,

   318. See note 301, above.
   319. Le., the Arabs.
   320. I.e., Islam.

    321. See note 311, above.

   322. As the next report indicates, 'Urwah's mother, Subay'ah bt. 'Abd Shams,
was from Quraysh, while his father, Masud, was from the tribe of Thaqif from al-
Ta'if.

  323. 'Uka; was the site of a yearly market a day's journey from the city of al-
Ta'if and three days from Mecca (Yaqut, Mu'jam al-buldan, VI, 2o3(.

[[p 101]]
76 The Victory of Islam

115361 I came to you with my family and children and those who obeyed
          me?" "Yes," they said. (According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-
           Muhammad b. Ishaq-al-Zuhrl, who said in his report of this
           incident: 'Urwah b. Masud was the son of Subay'ah bt. 'Abd
           Shams.)
             Resumption of the account of Ibn 'Abd al-AU and Ya'qlab:
           'Urwah said: "This man has offered you a sensible proposal. Ac-
           cept it, and let me go to him." They said, "Go to him." So 'Urwah
           went to the Prophet and began speaking to him . The Prophet
           spoke as he had spoken to Budayl. Then 'Urwah said: "Muham-
           mad, tell me: if you extirpate your tribesmen, have you ever heard
           of any of the Arabs who destroyed his own race before you? And if
           the contrary comes to pass ,324 by God I see both prominent people
           and rabble who are likely to flee and leave you ." Abu Bakr said,
           "Go suck the clitoris of al-Lit! "-al-Lat325 was the idol of Thagif,
           which they used to worship-"Would we flee and leave him?"
           "Who is this?" asked'Urwah. They said, "Abu Bakr."'Urwah said,
           "By the One who holds my soul in His hand, were it not for a favor
           you did me for which I have not repaid you, I would answer
           you. "326
              'Urwah [again] began speaking to the Prophet . As often as he
           spoke to him, he took hold of his beard. Al-Mughirah b. Shu'bah
           was standing next to the Prophet with his sword, wearing a mail
           neck-protector, and whenever Urwah extended his hand toward

[1537) the Prophet's beard, al-Mughirah struck his hand with the lower
           end of the scabbard and said, "Take your hand away from his
           beard!" 'Urwah raised his head and asked, "Who is this?" They
           said, "Al-Mughirah b. Shu'bah." 'Urwah said, "Treacherous man,
           am I not trying to rectify your act of treachery?" (During the Time
           of Ignorance327 al-Mughirah b. Shu'bah had accompanied some
           men and killed them and taken their money. Later he had come

                324. I.e., if Quraysh prove too powerful for you.
                325. Al-Lit (called a]-T'aghiyah, the dominator) was a female fertility and war-
             rior goddess worshiped especially at al-Ti'if. See E12 , s.v. al-Litt and T. Fahd, Le
             panthdon de 1'Arabie centrale a la veille de 1'Hdgire, z l r-2o.
                  326. The favor was that Abi3 Bakr had helped Urwah b. Mas'Bd pay the blood
               money with which 'Urwah had ended the feud caused by his nephew, al-Mughirah
               b. Shu'bah. See W, II, 595•
                327. See note 109, above.

[[p 102]]
The Events of the Year 6 77

and accepted Islam. The Prophet had said, "As for your Islam, we
accept it; but the money is money of treachery for which we have
no need."328)

   'Urwah began looking at the companions of the Prophet. "By
God," he said, "if the Prophet coughs up a bit of phlegm and it falls
onto the hand of one of them, he rubs his face and skin with it. If
he gives them an order, they vie with each other to be the first to
carry it out. If he performs ablutions, they almost fight over the
water he used for them. If they speak in his presence, they lower
their voices and do not look sharply at him out of respect for him."

   'Urwah went back to his comrades and said: "My people, by God
I have gone as an envoy to kings . I have gone as an envoy to Kisra,
Caesar, and the Negus,329 but, by God, never have I seen a king
whose companions respect him as Muhammad 's companions re-
spect Muhammad. By God, if he coughs up a bit of phlegm and it
falls onto the hand of one of them, he rubs his face and skin with
it. If he gives them an order, they vie with each other to be the first
to carry it out. If he performs ablutions, they almost fight over the
water he used for them. If they speak in his presence, they lower
their voices and do not look sharply at him out of respect for him. [1538]
He has offered you a sensible proposal; accept it!"

   Then a man from Kinanah330 said, "Let me go to him." "Go to
him" they said. When he came in sight of the Prophet and his
companions, the Prophet said : "This is so and so. He is from a
people who venerate sacrificial camels; so send them out to him."
They were sent out to him . People went out to meet him shouting
[the pilgrim's cry] labbayka.331 When the man from Kinanah]
saw that, he said: "Praise God! These people should not be turned
away from the House."

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-al-Zuhri,
who said in his report: Then they sent to him al-Ijulays b. 'Alqa-

   328. The parallels in IH, III, 313 (from al-Zuhri), and in W, II, 595 -98 (very
elaborate), tell how al -Mughirah b. Shu'bah, the nephew (or perhaps grandnephew)
of 'Urwah b. Masud, once killed thirteen men and took their money , causing a
feud that his uncle 'Urwah ended by paying blood money for the slain men.

   329. The rulers of Persia, Byzantium, and Ethiopia respectively.
   330. Kinanah (b. Khuzaymah ) was a tribe near Mecca. See E12, s.v. Kinana.
   331. Literally, "at your service (O Lord]," an ancient ritual chant used by pil-
grims to Mecca in pre -Islamic times and preserved in the Islamic pilgrimage.

[[p 103]]
78 The Victory of Islam

[1539]  mah (or b. Zabban), who was the chief of the Ahabish332 at that
        time. He was one of the Banu al-I;iarith b. 'Abd Manat b. Kinanah.
        When the Messenger of God saw him, he said : "Surely this man is
        from a people who devote themselves to piety. Send the sacrificial
        victims toward him for him to see ." When he saw the sacrificial

        victims streaming toward him from the side of the valley with
        their necklaces and having eaten away their hair from being pen-

        ned up so long, he returned to Quraysh without having reached
        the Messenger of God , so greatly was he impressed by what he had
        seen. "People of Quraysh," he said, "I have seen what it is not
        lawful to turn away: sacrificial victims with their necklaces, hav-

        ing eaten away their hair from being long penned up away from

        their place [of sacrifice]." They said to him, "Sit downs you are

        only a Bedouin who knows nothing!"
          According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-

        'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr: Al-IIulays became angry at this and said:
        "People of Quraysh, by God, not on these terms did we became
        your confederates! Not on these terms did we league together with
        you-that you should turn away from the House of God those
        who have come to venerate it! By Him who holds the soul of al-
        Hulays in His hand, you shall leave Muhammad free to accom-
        plish what he came for, or I will leave, taking every last man of the
        Ahabish!" They said to him: "Wait! Leave us alone, Hulays, until
        we obtain terms for ourselves with which we can be satisfied."

           Resumption of the account of Ibn 'Abd al-AU and Ya'qub: One
        of them named Mikraz b. IHafs stood up and said to them , "Let me
        go to him." "Go to him!" they said. When he came into view, the
        Prophet said: "This is Mikraz b . I;iaf$. He is a dissolute man."
        Mikraz came and began speaking to the Prophet, but while he was
        speaking to him, Suhayl b. 'Amr came. (According to Ayyub333-
        'Ikrimah:334 When Suhayl came, the Prophet said, "Your business
        has now become easy for you."335)

           332. See note 74, above.
          333. Ayyub b. Abi Tamimah Kaysan al-Sakhtiyani was born in 66/685 (or 68)
        and died in 131/748. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 397-99i GAS, 1, 87-88.
           334. 'Ikrimah, a rtlawla of Ibn'Abbas and one of the most distinguished trans-
        mitters, is said to have died around 104-7/722-25 at the age of eighty. See In
        Hajar, Tahdhfb, VII, 163-73; and E12, s.v. 'lkrima.
          3 35• Arabic sahula "it has become easy" is a pun on the name Suhayl.

[[p 104]]
The Events of the Year 6 79

   According to Muhammad b. 'Umarah al-Asadi336 and Muham-                          [15401
mad b. Mansur337 (the wording of the account belongs to In
'Umarah)-'Ubaydallah b. Musa338-Musa b. 'Ubaydah339-Iyas
b. Salamah b. al-Akwa'-his father [Salamah b. al-Akwa'], who
said: Quraysh sent Suhayl b. 'Amr, Huwaylib b. 'Abd al-'Uzza, and
Haf§ b. Fulan to the Prophet to make peace with him. When the
Messenger of God saw that Suhayl b. 'Amr was among them, he
said: "God has made your business easy for you. The men intend
to gain access to you by their kinship-340 with you and intend to
ask you for peace. Send forth the sacrificial animals and proclaim
the [pilgrim's cry ofJ labbayka; perhaps that will soften their
hearts." So they cried out labbayka from throughout the camp
until their voices resounded with the call.

   Then (the three emissaries of Qurayshj came and asked him for
peace. When the people had made peace and while there were
among the Muslims some of the polytheists and among the poly-
theists some of the Muslims, Abu Sufyan plotted treachery
against him . Suddenly the valley was flowing with men and
weapons.

  According to Iyas [b. Salamahj-Salamah [b. al-Akwa']: I came
bringing six of the polytheists, they being armed, I leading them,
and they having no power to do any good or any mischief. I
brought them to the Prophet, and he neither plundered nor killed,
but forgave.

  As for the report of al-Ilasan b. Yahya-Abu 'Amir [al-'AgadiJ-

   336. For Muhammad b. 'Umirah b . 'Amr b. IIazm al-AnVari, see Ibn Hajar,
Tahdhib, IX, 359-6o.

   337. Muhammad b. Manytar b. Dawud b . Ibrahim al-'tsi Abu Ja'far al-'Abid
lived at Baghdad and died in 254/868 or 256/870 at age eighty. See Ibn Hajar,

Tahdhib, IX, 472.
  338. 'Ubaydallah b. Musa b . Bidham/Badhin was born in 128/745 and died in

213 or 214/828-29. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, VII, S0-S3.
   339. Musa b. Ubaydah b. Nashit b. 'Amr b. al-Hirith al-Rabadhi Abu 'Abd

al- Aziz was bom in Medina and died in 152/769 or 153 . See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X,

356-60.
  340. This may allude to the fact that Muhammad's second wife, Sawdah bt.

Zam'ah, whom he married shortly after the death of Khadijah, had been the sister-
in-law of Suhayl b. 'Amr. Although Suhayl the head of the Banta 'Amir clan of
Quraysh) remained a pagan, his brother, al-Sakran b. 'Amr, had become a Muslim
and took part in the second Muslim emigration to Ethiopia. After al-Sakran's
death, Muhammad married his widow. See Eli, s.v. Sawda bint Zama.

[[p 105]]
8o The Victory of Islam

          'Ikrimah b. 'Ammar al-Yamami-Iyas b. Salamah-his father
          [Salamah b. al-Akwa']), it is that [Salamah] said: After we and the
          people of Mecca had made peace with each other, I went to the
          tree, cleared away its thorns, and lay down in its shade. Four
          polytheists, people of Mecca, came to me and began speaking evil
          of the Messenger of God . Finding them hateful, I moved to another
          tree. They hung up their weapons and lay down. While they were
          lying there, suddenly someone called out from the lower part of
          the valley: "Help, Emigrants! Ibn Zunaym has been killed." I drew
          my sword, ran at the four-they were lying down-and took their

          weapons, which- I made a bundle in my hands. Then I said, "By
          Him who honored Muhammad, if any of you raises his head, I will
          strike off his skull ."341 I led them away to the Messenger of God.
[15411 My uncle 'Amin brought in a man clothed in mail named Mikraz
            from the al-'Abalat 342 We made them stand before the Messenger
            of God along with seventy of the polytheists. The Messenger of
            God looked at them and said, "Let the first violating [of the peace]
            be theirs"-and he pardoned them. Thus God revealed: "It is He

            who restrained their hands from you, and your hands from them,

            in the hollow of Mecca."343
             Resumption of the account of Muhammad b. 'Umyrah and

           Muhammad b. Man§ur, from 'Ubaydallah [b. Musa]: Salamah [b.
           al-Akwa'] said: We rushed toward those of our side who were in
           the hands of the polytheists, and we rescued every one of our men
           who was in their hands. We overpowered those of their side who
           were in our hands. Then Quraysh sent Suhayl b. 'Amr and
           HuwaYlib and put them in charge of their [side of the] peace; the
           Prophet sent 'Ali for his [side of the] peace.

            According to Bishr b. Mu'adh344-Yazid b. Zuray'345-
          Sa'id346-Qatadah,347 who said: We were told that one of the

                341. Literally, "I will strike off that wherein are his two eyes."
                  342. Al-'Abalat was a division of the clan of Banu Umayyah al-$ughrA of
               Quraysh ( Lisan, N, 2790).
                  343. Qur'An 48:24.
                344• Bishr b. Mu'adh al-'Agadi, with whom al-Tabari studied in al-Ba$rah, died
             in or before 245/859. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 458.
                  345. Abu Mu'iwiyah Yazid b. Zuray' al-Bari was born in 101/720 and died in
               182/798 . See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 325-28.
                  346. Said b. Abi'Arubah died in the 15os lea. 7721. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, N,
               63-66.
                347. Abu al-Khallab QatAdah b. Di'Amah b. QatAdah al-Sadusi (born 60/679,
             died 118/7361 was a Qur'an commentator and scholar of poetry , genealogy, and

[[p 106]]
The Events of the Year 6 81

companions of the Prophet , a man named Zunaym, had gone up                         11542)
into the pass from al-Hudaybiyah and that the polytheists shot
and killed him. The Messenger of God sent out horsemen, and
they brought him twelve horsemen of the unbelievers. God's
Prophet asked them: "Do l owe you any treaty obligations? Do I
owe you any protection?" "No," they replied. Then the Messenger
of God released them. God revealed concerning this the [following
words of ) Qur'an: " It is He who restrained their hands from you,
and your hands from them, in the hollow of Mecca"-until the
words, "He sees the things you do."348

  As for Ibn Isl$q, he has mentioned that Quraysh sent Suhayl b.
'Amr only after a message that the Messenger of God had sent to
them with 'Uthman b. 'Affan.

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-a
certain man of learning: The Messenger of God summoned
Khirash b. Umayyah al-Khuza'i and sent him to Quraysh in
Mecca, mounting him on a camel of his called al-Tha'lab,349 to
inform their dignitaries from him of why he had come. Quraysh,
however, hamstrung the camel of the Messenger of God that
Khirash was riding. They intended to kill Khirash, but the
Ahabish protected him; so they released him, and he returned to
the Messenger of God.

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Isl}aq-
someone I do not doubt-'Ikrimah, the mawla of Ibn 'Abbas:
Quraysh sent forty or fifty of their men and commanded them to
surround350 the camp of the Messenger of God in order to in-
jure351 for themselves some352 of his companions; however, these
men were taken prisoner and brought to the Messenger of God. He
pardoned them and released them . They had thrown stones and
shot arrows into the camp of the Messenger of God.

  Then the Prophet summoned 'Umar b. al-Khallab, to send him
to Mecca to inform the dignitaries of Quraysh from him of why he

history. The isndd is to a Qur'an commentary by him. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII,

351-56, GAS, I, 31-32.

   348. Qur'an 48:24.

   349. The name means "fox."
  350. Arabic yufifu can also mean "go around, circumambulate."
  351. Arabic yuciba has grange of meanings from "obtain" through "injure," and
even "kill."
  352. IH, III, 314, reads "one."

[[p 107]]
8a The Victory of Islam

[11543]  had come. 'Umar said: " Messenger of God, I fear for my life from
         Quraysh. There is no one of the Banu 'Adi b. Ka'b353 in Mecca who
         will protect me now that Quraysh know of my hostility and

         roughness to them. But I can recommend to you a man they will

         like better than me-'Uthman b. 'Affan.1"354 So the Messenger of
         God summoned 'Uthman and sent him to Abu Sufyan and the
         dignitaries of Quraysh, to inform them that he had come not for
         war but only to visit the House and venerate its sanctity. 'Uthman
         set out for Mecca. When he entered Mecca for before he entered it),
         Aban b. Said b. al-'As met him and, dismounting from his animal,
         mounted 'Uthman in front of him and rode [on the same animal]
         behind him. He protected 'Uthman until the latter had delivered

         the message of the Messenger of God. 'Uthman hastened to Abu
         Sufyan and the powerful men of Quraysh and informed them of
         the message with which he had been sent from the Messenger of
         God. When'Uthman had finished the message of the Messenger of
         God to them, they said to him, "If you wish to circumambulate
         the House, do so." He replied, "I will not do it until the Messenger
         of God circumambulates it." Quraysh then imprisoned him, and a
         report reached the Messenger of God and the Muslims that

         'Uthman had been killed.
           According to Ibn lIumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-

         'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr: When the Messenger of God received a
         report that 'Uthman had been killed, he said, "We will not leave

         until we fight it out with the enemy"-and he summoned the
         people to swear allegiance. Thus the Pledge of al-Ri4wan355 took

         place under the tree.
            According to Ibn 'Umyyah al-Asadi-'Ubaydallah b. Musa-

         Musa b. 'Ubaydah-Iyas b. Salamah-Salamah b. al-Akwa', who

           3 5 3. The Band 'Ad! b. Kab were 'Umar's clan. They belonged to the group of less
         influential clans known as Quraysh al-ZawAhir ("of the outskirts"), whose quar-
         ters were far from the central area of Mecca.

           354• 'Uthman was a member of the influential clan of Banu Umayyah b. 'Abd
         Shams (the clan of Abu Sufyan) and would thus be a more respected emissary. As
         the sequel shows, 'Uthman was immediately taken under the protection of his

         cousin, Aban b. Sa'id b. al- 'Al b. Umayyah.
            355. I.e., the Pledge of [God' s] Being Well Pleased (with the Muslims), alluding

         to the verse of Qur'an revealed concerning the occasion (Qur'an 48 : 18), as ex-
         plained in the next paragraph. Watt in his E12 article on al-Hudaybiya calls it the

         Pledge of Good Pleasure.

[[p 108]]
The Events of the Year 6 83

said: While we were returning from al-Hudaybiyah, the Prophet's                          [1544]
crier announced : "People, an oath of allegiance! An oath of alle-
giance! The Holy Spirit356 has descended!" So we hastened to the
Messenger of God, who was under an acacia tree, and swore alle-
giance to him. This was what God referred to when He said: "God
was well pleased with the believers when they were swearing
allegiance to you under the tree."357

   According to 'Abd al-Hamid b. Bayan358-Muhammad b.

Yazid359-Ismail b. Abi Khalid36o-'Amir,361 who said: The first
to swear the Pledge of al-Ridwan was a man from the Banu Asad
named Abu Sinan b. Wahb.

  According to Yunus b. 'Abd al-AU-Ibn Wahb-al-Qasim b.
`Abdallah b. 'Umar362-Muhammad b. al-Munkadir363-Jabir b.
`Abdallah: They were fourteen hundred on the day of al-
Hudaybiyah 364 [Jabir] said: We swore allegiance to the Messenger
of God while `Umar was holding his hand under the tree, which
was an acacia . We swore allegiance to him-except al-Jadd b. Qays
al-Angari, who hid under the belly of his camel.

  Jabir said: We swore allegiance to the Messenger of God that we
would not flee; we did not swear allegiance to him to the death.

  Another account of this is as follows. According to al-I; iasan b.
Yahya-Abu `Amir-`Ikrimah b. `Ammar al-Yamami-Iyas b.
Salamah b. al-Akwa'-his father [Salamah b. al-Akwa']: The
Prophet summoned the people to swear allegiance at the foot of
the tree. I swore allegiance to him among the first of the people;

   356. Arabic: ruh al-qudus, normally referring to the Angel Gabriel as the inter-
mediary who delivered the Qur'inic revelations to Muhammad.

   357. Qur'an 48:118.
   358. 'Abd al- Hamid b. Bayan died in 244/858. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, rrr.

   359. Muhammad b. Yazid al- Kula'i Abu Said al-Wasili was a mawld of Syrian

origin who died in 188/803-4. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 527-28.
   360. Isma'il b. Abi Khalid al-Ahmasi, a mawld known for his superior knowl-

edge of reports from al-Sha 'bi, died in 146/763 . See Ibn I lajar, Tahdhib, 1, 291-92.
  361. Abu 'Amr `Amir b. Sharahil b. 'Amr al- Sha`bi, a member of the South

Arabian tribe of Hamden, was born in al-Kufah in 19/640, and died in 103 /721. In

addition to political activity, he was a transmitter of hadith and a major source for

later historians. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 65-69 Ell, s.v. al-Sha'bij GAS, I, 277.
  362. Al-Qasim b. Abdallah b.Umar b. Ilaf§ b.'Agim b.'Umar b. a1-Khallab died

between 150/767 and 160/776-77. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 320-21.
  363. Muhammad b. al-Munkadir b. 'Abdallah al-Taymi died ca. 130/747-48 at

the age of seventy-six. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 473-75.
  364. Ed. Cairo: "they were fourteen and a hundred "-i.e., 114.

[[p 109]]
84 The Victory of Islam

(1545]  then he received more and more pledges of allegiance , until, when
        he was in the middle of the people, he said, "Swear allegiance,

        Salamah !" I said, "I did swear allegiance to you, Messenger of God,
        among the first of the people." He said, "Again !" Seeing me un-
        armed, the Prophet gave me a [shield of the kind called] hajafah or
        daraqah.365 The Messenger of God received the people's pledges
        of allegiance until, having arrived at the last of them, he said,
        "Aren't you going to swear allegiance, Salamah ?" I said, "Mes-
        senger of God, I did swear allegiance to you among the first of the
        people and in the middle group ." "Again!" he said . So I swore
        allegiance to him for the third time. The Messenger of God said,
        "Where are the daraqah and366 hajafah that I gave you?" I said,
        "My uncle 'Amir came up to me without a weapon , and I gave
        it367 to him." The Messenger of God laughed and said, "You are
        like the one who said of old, '0 God, help me find a friend who
        shall be dearer to me than myself.' 11

          Resumption of the account of Ibn Ishaq : The people swore alle-
        giance to the Messenger of God . None of the Muslims who were
        present on the occasion hung back except al-Jadd b . Qays, a mem-
        ber of the Band Salimah . Jabir b. 'Abdallah used to say: "It is as if I
        could see him now, clinging to the armpit of his camel. He had
        taken refuge there to hide from the people by means of her." Word
        then came to the Messenger of God that the report about 'Uthman

        was false.
          According to Ibn Ishaq-al-Zuhrl: Quraysh then sent Suhayl b.

        'Amr, a member of the Band 'Amin b. Lu'ayy, to the Messenger of

        God. They instructed Suhayl: "Go to Muhammad and make peace
        with him. Let the only provision of the peace with him be that he
        shall go away from us this year; for, by God, the Arabs must never

        say that he entered our territory by force."

           365. Both terms, which can be synonymous, refer to a shield made of heavy
        animal skins without wood . Insofar as the dictionaries distinguish between them,
        the l.iafafah was taken to be the native Arab shield made of layered camel hides,
        while the daraqah was said to be made of hippopotamus or crocodile skins im-

        ported from Ethiopia. See Lane, Lexicon, II, 520, III, 872.
          366. The parallel in Muslim, $a,ii, , reads "your IIa/afah or daragah"-ed.

        Leiden, note.
          367. The pronoun -ha (feminine singular or collective plural, but not dual) im-

        plies that only one shield was given.

[[p 110]]
The Events of the Year 6 85

   Suhayl b. 'Amr approached. When the Messenger of God saw                          [1546)
him coming, he said, "The people [of Quraysh) intended peace
when they sent this man." When Suhayl reached the Messenger of
God, he spoke for a long time. The two men negotiated with each
other, and peace was made between them. When the matter had
been arranged and only the writing of the document remained,
'Umar b. al-Khaffab jumped up and went to Abu Bakr and said,
"Abu Bakr, isn't he the Messenger of God?" "Yes," he replied.
"And are we not Muslims?" he asked. "Yes," he replied. "And are
they not polytheists?" he asked. "Yes," he replied. "Then why,"
asked 'Umar, "should we grant what is detrimental to our re-
ligion?" Abu Bakr said, "'Umar, stick to what he says,368 for I bear
witness that he is the Messenger of God." 'Umar said, "I, too, bear
witness that he is the Messenger of God."

   'Umar then went to the Messenger of God and said, "Messenger
of God, are you not the Messenger of God?" "Yes," he replied.
"And are we not Muslims?" asked'Umar. "Yes," he replied. "And
are they not polytheists?" he asked. "Yes," he replied. "Then
why," asked 'Umar, "should we grant what is detrimental to our
religion?" He replied : "I am God's servant and messenger. I will
never disobey His command, and He will not allow me to perish."
('Umar used to say, "I continued to fast, give alms, pray, and free
slaves because of what I did on that day, for fear of the words I had
spoken, until I hoped it would be set right.")

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-

Buraydah b. Sufyan b. Farwah al-Aslami369-Muhammad b. Ka'b
al-Qurazi-'Alqamah b. Qays al-Nakha'i-'Ali b. AbI Talib, who

said: Then the Messenger of God summoned me and said, "Write,

'In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate."' Suhayl
said: "I do not know this one.370 Write rather, 'In Thy name, 0
God."' So the Messenger of God said, "Write, 'In Thy name, 0

   368. Literally, "hold closely to his stirrup." See Lane, Lexicon, VI, 2246, s.v.
gharz for the idiom.

   369. Buraydah b. Sufyan b . Farwah al-Aslami is mentioned as a tdbi'i (but with-

out dates) in In Hajar, Tahdhlb, I, 433-34.
  370. Suhayl's objection is to the peculiarly Muslim formula, " the Merciful and

Compassionate," ( cf. the parallel in W, II, 61o, "I do not know 'the Merciful Jal-
RabtnanJ"') not to the invocation of God under the name Allah. Suhayl's formula
itself uses the name Allah.

[[p 111]]
86 The Victory of Islam

[11547)  God' "-and I wrote it. Then he said, "Write, 'This is that whereon
         Muhammad the Messenger of God has made peace with Suhayl b.
         'Amr."' Suhayl b. 'Amr said: "If I testified that you are the Mes-
         senger of God, I would not fight you. Write rather your name and
         the name of your father." So the Messenger of God said, "Write:
         This is that whereon Muhammad b. 'Abdallah has made peace
         with Suhayl b. 'Amr. The two have agreed on these terms: that
         warfare shall be laid aside by the people for ten years, during
         which the people shall be safe and refrain from [attacking] each
         other; that whoever shall come to the Messenger of God from

         Quraysh without the permission of his guardian, [Muhammad]

         shall return him to them; that whoever shall come to Quraysh
         from those who are with the Messenger of God, they shall not
         return him to [Muhammad]; that there shall be between us a
         breast bound [to fulfill the terms of this writing);371 that there
         shall be neither clandestine theft nor betrayal;372 and that anyone
         who wishes to enter into treaty and pact with the Messenger of
         God may do so, and anyone who wishes to enter into treaty and
         pact with Quraysh may do so." (The Khuza'ah jumped up and said,
         "We have a treaty and pact with the Messenger of God." The Banu
         Bakr jumped up and said, "We have a treaty and compact with
         Quraysh."j373 "You shall go back, leaving us this year and not
         entering Mecca against us . When the next year comes , we will go
         out, away from you, and you shall enter Mecca with your compan-
         ions and stay there for three nights: you shall have with you the
         weapons of a rider, with the swords in scabbards; you shall not
         enter with other weapons."

           While the Messenger of God was writing the document-he and

           371. Arabic: anna baynand'aybatan makftifatan, literally " a receptacle closed
         for tied up)." The phrase is enigmatic. Lane, Lexicon, V, 2206, lists three quite
         different explanations. The first is that it means there shall be between us as it
         were a receptacle closed and fastened by its loops over its contents -i.e., a breast
         bound to fulfill the terms of the treaty. Another interpretation is that as a recepta-
         cle is tied up so shall evil be tied up between the two sides. Yet another interpreta-
         tion is that there shall be sincere friendship between the two sides (a friend being

         often compared to a receptacle in which one can deposit one's secrets).
           372. Arabic: la islala wa-1a ighlala, thus interpreted by Abu Dharr's commen-

         tary on the Sirah. Alternatively, the two terms may be taken as referring to secret

         and open violations.
           373. This notice anticipates the violence between the Band Bakr b. 'Abd Mangt

         b. Kinanah ( allies of Quraysh) and the Band Khuza' ah (allies of Muhammad) In A.H.
         8, which precipitated the Muslim conquest of Mecca. See p. 16o, below.

[[p 112]]
The Events of the Year 6 87

Suhayl b. 'Amr-suddenly Abu Jandal, the son of Suhayl b. 'Amr,                      [1548)
came walking with short steps in shackles. He had escaped to the
Messenger of God. The companions of the Messenger of God had
set out not doubting that they would conquer, because of a vision
the Messenger of God had seen. Therefore, when they saw what
they saw-the peace, the retreat, and the obligations the Mes-
senger of God had taken on himself-the people felt so grieved
about it that they were close to despair. When Suhayl saw Abu
Jandal, he went up to him, struck him on the face, and grabbed
him by the front of his garment. "Muhammad," he said, "the pact
was ratified between me and you before this fellow came to you."
"You are right," he replied. Suhayl began pulling and dragging [his
son Abu Jandal] by the front of his garment to return him to
Quraysh. Abu Jandal began screaming at the top of his voice, "Peo-
ple of the Muslims, shall I be returned to the polytheists for them
to torment me for my religion?" This made the people feel even
worse. The Messenger of God said: "Abu Jandal, count on a re-
ward, for God will give you and those who are oppressed with you
relief and a way out. We have made a treaty and peace between
ourselves and these people; we have given them and they have
given us a promise, and we will not act treacherously toward
them."

   'Umar b. al-Khattab jumped up with Abu Jandal, walking beside
him, and saying, "Be patient, Abu Jandal! They are only polythe-
ists, and the blood of any of them is no more than the blood of a
dog!" He held the hilt of his sword close to him. ('Umar used to
say, "I hoped he would take the sword and strike his father with it,
but the man was too attached to his father.")

  When the writing was finished, he had some of the Muslims and
some of the polytheists witness the peace: Abu Bakr b. Abi
Quhafah, 'Umar b. al-Khattab, 'Abd al -Raliman b. 'Awf, 'Abdallah
b. Suhayl b. `Amr, Said b. Abi Waggaq, Malzmud b. Maslamah (a
member of the Banu 'Abd al-Ashhal), Mikraz b. Hafq b. al-Akhyaf
)a polytheist, a member the Banu 'Amir b. Lu'ayy), and 'Ali b. Abi
Talib, who wrote-he was the writer of the document.

  According to Harun b. Ishag374-Mug'ab b. al-Migdam;375 and

  374. Hirun b. Ishaq b. Muhammad al-Hamdini al-Kufi died in 285/898. See In
Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 2-3.

   375. Mus'ab b. al-Migdam a1-Khath'ami al-Kufi died in 203 /818. See In I;Iajar,
Tahdhib, X, 165-66.

[[p 113]]
88 The Victory of Islam

[1549]  according to Sufyan b . Waki'-his father [Waki' b. al-Jarra4];376
        each of the two said: according to Isra'il-Abu Ishaq-al-Bara',
        who said:377 The Messenger of God set out to perform the lesser
        pilgrimage during Dhu al-Qa'dah. The people of Mecca refused to
        allow him to enter Mecca until he made a pact with them that he
        would stay there [only] three days . When he wrote the document,
        he wrote, "This is what Muhammad the Messenger of God has
        agreed to." They said, "If we knew that you are the Messenger of
        God, we would not prevent you; but you are Muhammad b.
        'Abdallah." He replied , "I am the Messenger of God, and I am
        Muhammad b. 'Abdallah." He said to 'Ali, "Erase 'Messenger of
        God.'" "No," he replied, "by God, I will never erase you !" So the
        Messenger of God took the document -he did not write well-
        and wrote "Muhammad" in place of "the Messenger of God."378
        Then he wrote: "This is what Muhammad has agreed to: he shall
        not enter Mecca with weapons, except swords in scabbards; he
        shall not depart from its people taking anyone who wants to fol-
        low him; and he shall not hinder any of his companions who
        wants to stay in Mecca." When Muhammad entered Mecca and
        the time elapsed, they came to 'Ali and said to him , "Tell your
        master to leave us, for the time has elapsed." So the Messenger of
        God left.

          According to Muhammad b. 'Abd al-AU-Muhammad b.
        Thawr-Ma'mar-al-Zuhri-'Urwah b. al-Zubayr -al-Miswar b.
        Makhramah; and according to Ya 'qub b. Ibrahim-Yahya b.
        Sa'id-'Abdallah b. al-Mubarak-Ma'mar-al-Zuhri-'Urwah-
        al-Miswar b. Makhramah and Marwan b. al-Hakam in the story of
        al-Hudaybiyah:379 When the Messenger of God had finished his
        pact, he said to his companions, "Arise, sacrifice, and shave." By

           376. WakV b. al-Jarrab b. Mulayli (or Malih) al-Ru'asi Abo Sufyan was born ca.
        129/746 in al-Kafah. Regarded as one of the leading 1iadith scholars of his time, he
        died ca. 197/812. See Ibn Ilajar, Tahdhib, XI, 123 -34 GAS, I, 96-97.

           377. Parallel in al-BukharI, $ahib (ed. B611q), III, 154.
           378. The text as it stands is illogical. The parallel in al-Bukhara omits "Muham-
        mad" (yielding, "he wrote [ something] in place of 'the Messenger of God' 11). As the
        Leiden editor notes, one could restore the logic of the passage by assuming that the

        treaty as originally drafted began , "This is what the Messenger of God has agreed

        to" (omitting "Muhammad"). The sense of the report thus would be that Muham-
        mad replaced "the Messenger of God" with " Muhammad."

          379. Parallel : al-Bukherz , $alaib (ed. Bulaq), III, 167.

[[p 114]]
The Events of the Year 6 89

God, not a man stood up until he had said it three times . When no
one stood up, he arose and went into [the tent of I Umm Salamah
and told her what he had encountered from the people. Umm
Salamah said to him: "Prophet of God, do you approve of this? Go
out, and speak not a word to any of them until you have slaugh-
tered your fattened camel and summoned your shaver to shave
you." He arose, went out, and spoke not a word to anyone until he 1155o)
had done this. He slaughtered his fattened camel and called his
shaver, who shaved him. When they saw this, they rose up and
slaughtered, and they began to shave each other, until they almost
killed each other for grief.

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq: The person
who shaved him that day-according to my information-was
Khirash b. Umayyah b. al-Fail al-Khuza'i.

   According to In Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Abdallah b.
Abi Najih380-Mujahid-Ibn 'Abbas, who said:-381 On the day of
al-Hudaybiyah, some men shaved [their heads) and others short-
ened [their hair by cutting iti. The Messenger of God said, "God
will have mercy on those who shave." They asked, "And those
who shorten, Messenger of God?" He replied, "God will have
mercy on those who shave." They asked, "And those who shorten,
Messenger of God?" He replied, "God will have mercy on those
who shave." They asked, "Messenger of God, and those who
shorten?" He replied, "And those who shorten." They asked,
"Messenger of God, why did you explicitly mention mercy for
those who shave and not those who shorten?" He replied, "Be-
cause they did not doubt."

   According to In Humayd--Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Abdallah b.
Abi Najih-Mujahid-Ibn 'Abbas, who said: Among the victims
that he sacrificed the year of al-Hudaybiyah, the Messenger of God
sacrificed a camel stallion belonging to Abu Jah1382 which had a
silver nose ring, and this he did to anger the polytheists.

   380. 'Abdallah b. Abi Najih died in 131 or 531 /748-5o. See In Sa'd, Tabagdt, V,
355k In Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 54- 55. Sezgin (GAS, 1, 20) argues that Ibn AN Najih
was the author of a commentary on the Qur 'an commentary of Mujahid.

   381. Parallel: IH, III, 359 (tr. Guillaume, 5o5).
  381. Abu Jahl for Abu al-Hakamj Amr b. Hishim b. al-Mughirah, the leader of
the Band Makhzdm clan of Quraysh, was a prominent opponent of Muhammad.

[[p 115]]
go The Victory of Islam

[1551]    Resumption of the account of al-Zuhri that we have mentioned
115521  previously: Then the Prophet returned to Medina.

          In his account, Ibn I;iumayd (on the authority of Salamah-Ibn
        Isliaq-al-Zuhri) adds that al-Zuhri used to say: No victory greater
        than this one had been won previously in Islam. There had been
        only fighting when the people met together; however, when the
        truce took place, and war laid down its burdens, and all the people
        felt safe with each other, they met with each other in conversation
        and debate, and no one possessing understanding was told about
        Islam but embraced it. Thus, in those two years as many or more
        entered Islam as had been in it before.

          All [transmitters of the account] from al-Zuhri-'Urwah-al-
        Miswar and Marwan say: When the Messenger of God arrived in

        Medina, Abu Basir, a man from Quraysh, came to him.
          According to Ibn Ishaq in his report:383 Abu Bair 'Utbah b.

        Asid384 b. jariyah, a Muslim, was one of those confined in Mecca.
        When he came to the Messenger of God, Azhar b. 'Abd'Awf and al-
        Akhnas b. Shariq b. 'Amr b. Wahb al-Thagafi wrote concerning
        him to the Messenger of God and sent a man from the Banu'Amir
        b. Lu'ayy along with a mawla of that clan. The two brought the
        letter of al-Azhar and al-Akhnas to the Messenger of God. The
        Messenger of God said: "Abu Basir, you know what we have given
        these people. Breaking a promise is not right in our religion. God
        will give you and those who are oppressed with you relief and a

        way out."
           Abu Bair departed with the two men. When he was at Dhu al-

        Ilulayfah, he sat against a wall, and his two companions sat with
        him. Abu Bair said, "Is this sword of yours sharp, 0 tribesman of

        the Banu'Amir?" "Yes," he replied. "May I look at it?" he said. "If
        you wish," he replied. Abu Bair unsheathed it, attacked the man
        with it, and killed him. The mawla hurried away and came to the
        Messenger of God while the latter was sitting in the mosque.
        When the Messenger of God caught sight of him, he said, "This
        man has seen something fearful." When he reached the Messenger

        Presumably, the camel had been captured at the Battle of Badr, where Abu jahl had
        been killed. See al-Tabari, I, i 1871 E12, s.v. Abu Dahl.

          383. 111, III, 323-24 (tr. Guillaume, 507-8); parallel in W, II, 624-29.
           384. Ed. Cairo: Usayd. Al-Dhahabi, al-Mushtabih, 12, gives Asid as the name of

        Abu Ba$ir's father.

[[p 116]]
The Events of the Year 6  91

of God, the latter asked, "Alas, what has happened to you?" The                        (1 5531
man replied, "Your companion killed my companion." By God,
while the man was still there, Abu Bair appeared girded with the
sword and halted before the Messenger of God, saying: "Mes-
senger of God, your obligation has been fulfilled and has been
discharged from you.385 You surrendered me and returned me to
them, but God rescued me from them." The Prophet said: "Woe to
his mother! A kindler of war's fire"-Ibn Ishaq, in his account,
said "a stirrer up of war"-"if he had men with him!" When Abu
Basir heard this, he knew that he would return him to them. So
Abu Bair went out and encamped at al-'IS,386 in the vicinity of
Dhu al-Marwah, on the coast of the sea, on the route that Quraysh
used to take to Syria. The words that the Messenger of God had
spoken to Abu Basir-"Woe to his mother! A stirrer up of war if he
had men with him!"-were, reported to the Muslims who were
confined in Mecca, and they went out to Abu Basir at al-'IS. Abu
Jandal b. Suhayl b. 'Amr escaped and joined Abu Basir. Nearly
seventy such men gathered around him, and they harassed
Quraysh. By God, whenever they heard of a caravan of Quraysh
that had set out for Syria, they intercepted it, killed the men, and
took their goods. Quraysh therefore sent to the Prophet, imploring
him for the sake of God and the bond of kinship to send word to
them that whoever came to him would be safe 387 So the Mes-
senger of God gave them refuge, and they came to him in Medina.

  Ibn Ishaq added in his account: When word of how Abu Bair
had killed their companion from the Banu'Amir reached Suhayl b.
'Amr, he leaned his back against the Ka'bah and said, "I will not
remove my back from the Ka'bah until they pay blood money for
this man."388 Abu Sufyan b. Harb said: "By God, this is foolish-
ness. By God, no blood money will be paid for him." He said it
three times.

  385. Ibn Hisham: "and God has discharged it for you."

   386. Al 'I' is said to be four nights' journey from Medina and two nights' journey
from Dhu al-Marwah (a village in Wadi al-Qura, the long valley extending north
from Medina toward Syria)- see Ibn Sa'd, Tabagat, II, 23.

  387. I.e., he would not be returned to Mecca.
  388. As the leader of the Band 'Amir, Suhayl b. 'Amr had responsibility for
demanding compensation for the murder of a fellow clansman.

[[p 117]]
92 The Victory of Islam

[1554)    According to Ibn 'Abd al-AU and Ya'qub in their account:389
        Believing women then came to him (that is, the Messenger of
        God). God therefore revealed to him: "0 believers, when believing
        women come to you as emigrants"-until the words, "to the ties
        of unbelieving women."390 On that day 'Umar b. al-Khallab
        divorced two women who had been his wives in polytheism.

        Thus, He forbade them to send the women back, but commanded
        them to return the bride price at that time. (A man asked al-Zuhri,

        "Was that because of conjugal relations?" "Yes," he replied 391)
        Mu'awiyah b. Abi Sufyan married one of the women; $afwan b.
        Umayyah married the other.

          Ibn Isliaq added in his account: Umm Kulthum bt. 'Ugbah b. Abi
        Mu'ayl emigrated to the Messenger of God during that period. Her
        brothers, 'Umarah and al-Walid b. 'Uqbah, went to the Messenger
        of God to ask him to return her to them according to the treaty
        made between him and Quraysh at al-I;Iudaybiyah, but he did not

        do so: God had rejected it.
          Ibn Isllaq also said in his report: Among those who divorced

        [their unbelieving wives) was 'Umar b. al-Khallab, who divorced
        his wives Quraybah bt. Abi Umayyah b. al-Mughirah (Mu'awiyah
        b. Abi Sufyan married her afterward in Mecca while both of them
        were still polytheists) and Umm Kulthum bt. 'Am b. Jarwal al-
        Khuza'iyyah,392 the mother of 'Ubaydallah b. 'Umar (Abu Jahm b.
        I ludhafah b. Ghanim, one of her tribesmen, married her in Mecca
        while both of them were still polytheists).

           According to al-Wagidi 393 In this year, in the month of Rabi'

          389. Parallel: al-Bukhari, $a1;ih (ed. Bulaq(, III, 127.
          390. Qur'an 6o: io. The passage reads : "0 believers, when believing women
        come to you as emigrants, test them . God knows very well their belief. Then, if
        you know them to be believers , return them not to the unbelievers . They are not
        permitted to the unbelievers, nor are the unbelievers permitted to them. Give the
        unbelievers what they have expended (on them); and there is no fault in you to
        marry them when you have given them their due. Do not hold fast to the ties of

        unbelieving women. "
          391. Le., the bride price (gaddq(, being the husband's payment to the woman for

        sexual rights, should be returned to indemnify the unbelieving husband for the loss

        of his now Muslim wife.
           392. IH, II, 327, reads : Umm Kulthum bt. Jarwal (omitting 'Amr(. The Leiden

        editor prefers Ibn Hishim 's reading.
           393. Parallel with fuller text : W, II, 5 50.

[[p 118]]
The Events of the Year 6 93

H,394 the Messenger of God sent out 'Ukkashah b. Mihsan with                               (1 5551
forty men to al-Ghamr.395 Among them were Thabit b. Aqram
and Shuja' b. Wahb. He traveled quickly, but the enemy became

aware and fled. He encamped by their water and sent out scouts.

They captured a spy who guided them to some of their cattle.

They found two hundred camels and brought them down to
Medina.

   In this year the Messenger of God sent out Muhammad b. Mas-
lamah with ten men in Rabi' I.396 The enemy lay in wait for them
until he and his companions went to sleep. Before they suspected
anything, there was the enemy. The companions of Muhammad
b. Maslamah were killed; Muhammad escaped wounded.

   According to al-Wagidi 397 In this year the Messenger of God
dispatched the raiding party of Abu 'Ubaydah b. al-Jarrah to Dhu
al-Qassah in the month of Rabi' II with forty men. They traveled
through the night on foot and reached Dhu al-Qassah just before
dawn. They raided the inhabitants, who escaped them by fleeing
to the mountains, and took cattle, old clothes, and a single man.
He became a Muslim, and the Messenger of God released him.

  In this year a raiding party led by Zayd b. Harithah went to al-
Jamum 398 He captured a woman of the Muzaynah named
IIalimah, who guided them to an encampment of the Banu Su-
laym, where they captured cattle, sheep, and prisoners. Among
the prisoners was Halimah's husband. When Zayd brought back
what he had taken, the Messenger of God granted to the woman of
Muzaynah her husband and her freedom.

  In this year a raiding party led by Zayd b. Harithah went to al-'Is
in Jumada 1 .399 During it, the property that was with Abu al= As b.

   394. Rabi' II of A.H. 6 began on 20 August 627.
   395. AI-Ghamr was a watering place belonging to the Band Asad b. Khuzaymah
to the east of Medina in the Yamimah (central Arabia), see Yaqut, Mu'Jam al-
bulddn, VI, 304.
   396. Rabi' I of A.x. 6 began on ix July 627. Parallel with fuller text: W, II, 551-52,
where the destination of this raid, like the following one, is given as Dhu al-Qagfah

of the Band Tha' labah and 'Uwal (subtribes of Ghatafan(, a night's march east of

Medina.
   397. Parallel with fuller text: W, II, 5 52. Another account (perhaps the some raid)

of a raid by Abu 'Ubaydah to the coast is in IH, IV, 632-33 (tr. Guillaume, 673 ).
   398. The nature and date of this raid are uncertain.
  399. Jumada I of A.H. 6 began on 18 September 627. Parallel (with fuller text): W,

11, 553-55.

[[p 119]]
94 The Victory of Islam

           al-Rabi' was taken. He asked the Prophet's daughter Zaynab to
           grant him refuge, and she did so.400

             In this year a fifteen-man raiding party led by Zayd b. Harithah
           went to al-Taraf in Jumada II against the Banu Tha'labah 401 The
           Bedouins fled, fearing that the Messenger of God had set out
           against them. Zayd took twenty camels from their herds. He was
           away four nights.

             In this year a raiding party led by Zayd b. Harithah went to
           Hisma in Jumada 11.402 According to [al-Wagidij-Musa b.
           Muhammad-his father [Muhammad b. Ibrahim], who said: The
           beginning of this incident was when Dihyah al-Kalbi came back
           from the court of Caesar,403 who had presented Dihyah with gifts
           of merchandise and clothing. When Dihyah reached Hisma, men
           from Judham404 intercepted him and robbed him, leaving him
[15561 with nothing. He came to the Messenger of God even before enter-
           ing his own house [in Medina] and informed him. The Messenger
          of God then sent Zayd b. Iiarithah to Hisma.

             In this year 'Umar b. al-Khatlab married Jamillah bt. Thabit b.
           Abi al-Aqlah. She was the sister of Aim b. Thabit. Jamilah bore
          him 'Agim b. 'Umar; then Umar divorced her. Yazid b. Jariyah

                400. Zaynab was Muhammad's daughter by Khadijah, his first wife, and her
             marriage to Abu al-'Al b. al-Rabi' b. 'Abd al-' Uzza b . 'Abd Shams, an influential
             merchant, had taken place before Muhammad began to receive revelations. Al-
             though Abu al-'A@ remained a pagan, Zaynab continued to live with him in Mecca
             even after Muhammad's emigration to Medina . After Abu al-'A$ was captured at
             the Battle of Badr, it was arranged that he would be released in return for Zaynab's
             leaving him and coming to Medina. See al-Tabarl, I, x347 -51; IH, II, 65i -6o (tr.
             Guillaume, 313-18 ), Ibn Sa'd, Tabagat, VIII, 20-24; E11, s.v. Zainab bint
             Muhammad.

                  401. Jumada II of A.H. 6 began on 1 8 October 627. Parallel: W, 11, 5 5 5 . According
               to Ibn Sa'd (Tabagdt, II, 63) al-Taraf was a watering place near al-Mara4, before al-
              Nakhil, thirty-six miles from Medina, according to IH, N, 616, it was near Nakhl
               on the road to Iraq.

                  402. Parallel with fuller text: W, IT, 5 5 5 -6o. Hisma was on the route to Syria,
              west of Tabuk. Another account, probably of the same raid, can be found in IN, N,
               612-16 ( tr. Guillaume, pp. 662 -64). See Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 43f.

                  403. On Dihyah's mission to the court of the Byzantine emperor Heraclius, who
              was in Palestine at the time, see pp . too, 104- 6, below.

               404. Judham was a nomadic tribe on the borders of the Byzantine empire. They
             ranged from places like Madyan, 'Amman, Ma'an, and Adhrub as far south as
             Tabuk and Wadi al-Qura. They were among the Arab allies of the Byzantines. See
             E12, s.v. Qiudham.

[[p 120]]
The Events of the Year 6 95

married her after him, and she bore him 'Abd al-Rahman b. Yazid,                      1= 5571
who was 'A4im's half-brother through his mother.

   In this year a raiding party led by Zayd b . Harithah went to Wadi

al-Qura405 in Rajab.406
   In this year a raiding party led by 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Awf went

to Dumat al-Jandal in Sha'ban 407 The Messenger of God said to
him, "If they obey you, marry the daughter of their king." The
people became Muslims , and therefore 'Abd al-Rahman married
Tumaciir bt. al-A4bagh. She became the mother of Abu Salamah (b.
'Abd al-Raliman b . 'Awf ]. Her father was their chief and king408

   In this year the people suffered a severe drought. The Messenger
of God therefore led the people in prayers for rain in the month of
Ramadan.409

  In this year a raiding party led by 'Ali b. Abi Talib went to Fadak
in Sha'ban.410 According to [al-Wagidi]-'Abdallah b . Ja'far411-
Ya'qub b. 'Utbah,412 who said: 'Ali b. Abi Talib set out for Fadak
with a hundred men against a clan of the Banu Sa 'd b. Bakr. This
was because the Messenger of God had received information that a
force of theirs intended to aid the Jews of Khaybar . 'Ali traveled
toward them by night and lay in wait during the day. He captured
a spy, who confessed to them that he had been sent to Khaybar to
offer the people their aid on condition that they would give them
the date harvest of Khaybar.

  In this year a raiding party led by Zayd b . Ilarithah set out

   405. Wadi al-Qura ("the Valley of the Villages") was a fertile valley stretching
north from Medina on the road to Syria; see El' s.v. Wadi '1-Kura.

   406. Rajah of A.H. 6 began on i6 November 627.

   407. For Dumat al-Jandal, see note 16, above. Sha'bin of A.H. 6 began on 16
December 627. Parallel with fuller text: W, II, 560-62; IH, IV, 631-32 (tr.
Guillaume, 672).

  408. His full name was al-Afbagh b. 'Amr al-Kalbi. See EI2, II, s.v. Dumat
al-Djandal.

   409. Rama4an of A.H. 6 began on 14 January 628.

   410. Parallel with fuller text: W, II, 562-63. Fadak was a village near IChaybar,
north of Medina. See E12, s.v. Fadak.

  411. Ed. Cairo, index, identifies him as'Abdallih b. Ja'far al-Zuhri, based on the
isndd in al-Tabarl, 1, 1o81.

   412. Ya'qub b. 'Utbah b. aI-Mughirah al-Thaqafi, a contemporary of al-Zuhri,
was an expert on the biography of the Prophet. He died in 128/745. See In I3ajar,
Tahdhib, XI, 392; GAS, I, 283. (Ed. Cairo's reading "b. 'Uqbah" is a misprint.)

[[p 121]]
96 The Victory of Islam

          against Umm Qirfah in the month of Rama4an.413 During it,
          Umm Qirfah (Falimah bt. Rabrah b. Badr ) suffered a cruel death.
          He tied her legs with rope and then tied her between two camels
          until they split her in two. She was a very old woman.

             Her story is as follows. According to Ibn Humayd- Salamah-
           Ibn Ishaq-'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr, who said: The Messenger of
           God sent Zayd b. Harithah to Wadi al-Qura, where he encountered
           the Banu Fazarah. Some of his companions were killed there, and
           Zayd was carried away wounded from among the slain. One of
           those killed was Ward b. 'Amr, one of the Band Sa'd b.
           Hudhaym:414 he was killed by one of the Banu Badr [b. Fazarah].
           When Zayd returned, he vowed that no washing [to cleanse him)
           from impurity should touch his head until he had raided the
           Fazarah.415 After he recovered from his wounds, the Messenger of
           God sent him with an army against the Banu Fazarah. He met
           them in Wadi al-Qura and inflicted casualties on them. Qays b. al-
          Musaliliar al-Ya'muri killed Mas'adah b. Hakamah b. Malik b.
           Badr and took Umm Qirfah prisoner. (Her name was Falimah bt.
           Rabi'ah b. Badr. She was married to Malik b. Hudhayfah b. Badr.
           She was very old woman.) He also took one of Umm Qirfah's
           daughters and 'Abdallah b. Mas'adah prisoner. Zayd b. Harithah
           ordered Qays to kill Umm Qirfah, and he killed her cruelly. He
115581 tied each of her legs with a rope and tied the ropes to two camels,
           and they split her in two. Then they brought Umm Qirfah's
           daughter and 'Abdallah b. Mas'adah to the Messenger of God.
          Umm Qirfah's daughter belonged to Salamah b. 'Amr b. al-Akwa',
          who had taken her-she was a member of a distinguished family
          among her people: the Arabs used to say, "Had you been more
          powerful than Umm Qirfah, you could have done no more."416
          The Messenger of God asked Salamah for her, and Salamah gave

                  413. Parallels with fuller text: W, II, 564-65i IH, IV, 617- 18 (tr. Guillaume, 664-

               65414. Ibn Hudhaym is lbn Hisham 's correction (accepted by the Leiden editor) of
              Ibn Islaaq's original reading "Ibn Hudhayl."

                415. This implies that he vowed to abstain from sexual relations, since the word
             for "major ritual impurity" (fanabah ) refers specifically to the impurity contracted
             by sexual relations, which requires full washing of the body.

               V6. The proverb is discussed in Freytag, Arabum Proverbia, II, 151 and 710.

[[p 122]]
The Events of the Year 6  97

her to him. He then gave her to his maternal uncle, Hazn b. Abi                        (15591
Wahb, and she bore him 'Abd al-Ral}man b. Hazn.

   The other version of the story of this expedition-from Salamah
b. al-Akwa'-is that its commander was Abu Bakr b. Abi
Qul}afah 417 According to al-Hasan b. Yahya--Abu 'Amir-
'Ikrimah b. 'Ammar-Iyas b. Salamah--his father [Salamah b. al-

Akwa'], who said: The Messenger of God appointed Abu Bakr as
our commander, and we raided some of the Banu Fazarah. When
we came near the watering place, Abu Bakr ordered us to halt for a
rest. After we prayed the dawn prayer, Abu Bakr ordered us to
launch the raid against them. We went down to the watering
place, and there we killed some people. I saw a group of people,
women and children among them, who had almost outstripped us
to the mountain; so I sent an arrow between them and the moun-
tain. When they saw the arrow, they stopped, and I led them back
to Abu Bakr. Among them was a woman of the Banu Fazarah
wearing a worn-out piece of leather.418 With her was her daughter,
among the fairest of the Arabs. Abu Bakr gave me her daughter as
booty. When I returned to Medina, the Messenger of God met me
in the market and said, "Salamah-how excellent the father who
begot you!-give me the woman." I said, "Messenger of God, I
like her, by God, and I have not uncovered her garment." He said
nothing to me until the next day, when he met me in the market
and said, "Salamah-how excellent a father begot you!-give me
the woman." I said: "Messenger of God, I have not uncovered her
garment. She is yours, Messenger of God." The Messenger of God
sent her to Mecca, and with her he ransomed some Muslim cap-
tives who were in the hands of the polytheists. (This version of the
story comes from Salamah.)

  According to Muhammad b. 'Umar [al-Wagidij: In this year a
raiding party led by Kurz b. Jabir al-Fihri set out against the mem-
bers of the Banu Uraynah who had killed the herdsman of the

   417. Parallel in Muslim, $ab111, IV, 197.
   418. Her garment is called a gash '. Lisdn, V, 3637, cites this tradition without
the words "of leather" and argues that the word means "old, worn-out fur." An-
other meaning is "a piece of old , worn-out leather," which fits in this version. See
ed. Leiden, Glossarium , p. CDXXIV.

[[p 123]]
98 The Victory of Islam

           Messenger of God and driven off camels in ShawwAl of the year
           6.419 The Messenger of God sent Kurz with twenty horsemen.

                            The Missions to Foreign Rulers

          In this year the Messenger of God sent out messengers.420 He sent
          out six persons in the month of Dhd al-Hijjah,421 three of them
           setting out together : Haxib b. Abi Balta'ah of Lakhm, a confederate
          of the Band Asad b. 'Abd al-'Uzza, to al-Mugawgis;422 Shuja' b.
          Wahb of the Band Asad b . Khuzaymah, a confederate of Harb b.
          Umayyah and veteran of Badr , to al-Ilarith b. Abi Shimr al-
[156o] Ghassani;423 and Dihyah b. Khalifah al-Kalbi to Caesar 424 He sent
           out Salil b. 'Amr al-'Amiri (of 'Amin b. Lu'ayy) to Hawdhah b. 'Ali
          al-Ilanafi, 425 and he sent out 'Abdallah b. Iludhafah al-Sahmi to
          Kisra,426 and 'Amr b. Umayyah al-I?amri to the Negus .427

             As for what In Ishaq has alleged (according to Ibn llumayd-
           Salamah--Ibn Ishaq ), it is: Between [the truce of I al-I ludaybiyah
          and his death, the Messenger of God dispersed some of his compan-
          ions to the kings of the Arabs and the foreigners to call them to God.

                 419. Shawwal of A.H. 6 began on 13 February 628. Parallel with fuller text: W, II,
               568-71, cf. IH, IV, 640-41 ( tr. Guillaume, 677-78)-apparently the same events.

                 420. Parallel : IH, IV, 6o6-8 (tr. Guillaume, 652-59), Ibn Said, Tabagdt, 1/2,15-
               86. For a discussion of the historicity of these reports, see Watt, Muhammad at
              Medina, 345-47.

                 421. Dhu al-Ilijjah of A.H. 6 began on 12 April 628.
                  422. Al-Muqawqis was the Arabic term for the Melkite (i.e., Byzantine) pa-
              triarch of Alexandria. Its derivation from the name of Patriarch Cyrus ("of the
              Caucasus "), who arrived in Egypt in 631, is discussed by K. Ohrnberg in E12, s.v. al-
              MulSaw$is. If this derivation of the name is correct, this account, which places the
              mission in 627 -28, involves an anachronism.
               423. Ed. Cairo vocalizes the name as Shamir. The mission was to the ruler of the
             Banta Ghassan, an Arab tribal kingdom with its capital at Bupra (Bostra) in Syria.
             The Ghassanids were Monophysite Christians and ruled a client state of the By-
             zantine Empire. See E12 s.v. Ghassan.
                  424. I.e., the Byzantine emperor.
               425. I.e., the chief of the Banu IIanifah b. Lujaym (part of Bakr b. Will), a tribe in
             al-Yamamah (central Arabia) centered on the town of al-Hajr. Hawdhah was appar-
             ently a Christian and was aligned with the Persians, for whom he conducted
             caravans. See E12, s.v. Ilanifa b. Ludjaym.
               426. Kisra (Persian "Khusrau," Greek " Chosroes") was the Arabic designation
             for the ruler of the Sassanian (Persian) Empire. See E12, s.v. Kisra.
                 427. Negus (Arabic al-Najdshi from Ge' ez niigdsf) was the Arabic term for the
              ruler of Ethiopia . See E12, s.v. al-Nadjashi.

[[p 124]]
The Events of the Year 6 99

   According to In Humayd--Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-Yazid b. Abi
Habib al-Migri:428 [Yazid b. Habib al-Mi*ri] found a letter contain-
ing a list of those whom the Messenger of God sent to the kings [of
the unbelievers1429 and what he said to his companions when he
sent them out. [Yazid] sent the letter to In Shihab al-Zuhri via a
trustworthy countryman of his, and al-Zuhri recognized the letter
[as genuine]. The letter stated that the Messenger of God went out
to his companions one morning and said to them: "I have been
sent as a mercy and for all. Therefore, convey [the message] from
me, and God shall have mercy on you. Do not become disobedient
to me as the disciples became disobedient to Jesus the son of
Mary." They asked, "Messenger of God, how were they disobe-
dient?" He replied: "He called [them) to the like of what I have
called you to. Those whom he sent close by were pleased and
accepted; those whom he sent far off were displeased and refused.
Jesus complained of their behavior to God, and when they awoke
the next morning, each of them could speak the language of the
people to whom he had been sent. Then Jesus said, `This is an
affair that God has determined for you; so go forth!I"

   According to In Ishaq: The Messenger of God gave his compa-
nions different destinations. He sent Salit b. 'Amr b. 'Abd Shams b.
'Abd Wudd (a member of the Banu 'Amir b. Lu'ayy) to Hawdhah [1561]
b. 'Ali, the ruler of al-Yamamah. He sent al-'Ala' b. al-Ha4lrami to
al-Mundhir b. Sawa4'3° (a member of the Banu 'Abd al-Qays), the
ruler of al-Bal}rayn; and 'Amr b. al-'As431 to Jayfar b. Julanda al-

   428. Abu Raja' Yazid b. Abi Habib ( Suwayd) al-Azdi al -Mi$rI was born in 5 3/672
and died in 128/745. He composed a history of the conquest of Egypt and was a
teacher of Muhammad b. Ishaq . See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 318-19, GAS, I, 341-
42.

   429. The reading of the Leiden editor (al-kha 'ibin, "those disappointed, who
suffer loss," occasionally a synonym for kafirin "unbelievers") is conjectural. Of
the two manuscripts, one gives the word's unpointed ductus, which could also be
read as al-janibayn, "of both sides," or, in the larger sense, "of all sides or
directions"-cf. Lane, Lexicon, II, 466a. The other manuscript reads al-nas ("of the
people"). In Hishim reads "kings of the Arabs and foreigners."

  430. Al-Mundhir b. Sawa, chief of the tribal division Darim of Tamim, was in
close relation with the Persian empire and controlled the market of Hajar (now al-
Iiasa) and Bahrayn. See E12, s.v. al-Bahrayn.

  431. Cf. the notices below, pp. 142 and 143 (1, r 6oo and 16or j, dating this event
and the coming of 'Amr b . al-'Al to Medina as a Muslim in A.H. 8. Cf. E12, s.v. 'Amr
b. al 'A$.

[[p 125]]
roo The Victory of Islam

Azdi and 'Abbad b. Julanda al-Azdi, the rulers of 'Uman . He sent
I3atib b. Abi Balta'ah to al-Muqawqis, the ruler of Alexandria.
Hatib delivered to him the letter of the Messenger of God, and al-
Muqawqis gave the Messenger of God four slave girls , including
Mariyah, the mother of Ibrahim, the son of the Messenger of God.
The Messenger of God sent Dihyah b. Khalifah al-Kalbi (and al-
Khazraji)432 to Caesar, who was Heraclius, the king of the Ro-
mans.433 When Dihyah brought him the letter of the Messenger of
God, he looked into it and then placed it between his thighs and
his flanks.

   According to Ibn I iumayd-Salamah -Muhammad b. Ishaq-
Ibn Shihab a1-Zuhri -'Ubaydallah b. 'Abdallah b. 'Utbah b.
Masud-'Abdallah b. 'Abbas-Abu Sufyan b. Barb, who said:434
We were merchant folk. The warfare between us and the Mes-
senger of God had prevented us from journeying , so that our
wealth became depleted. After the truce between us and the Mes-
senger of God, we feared that we might not encounter security.435
I set out for Syria with a group of merchants of Quraysh. Our
specific destination was Gaza, and we arrived there at the time of
Heraclius' victory over the Persians who were in his land-he
expelled them and regained from them his Great Cross, which
they had carried off.436 Having accomplished this against them

  432. Arabic: al-Kalbi thumma al-Khazraji: "of the tribe of Kalb and of the sub-
division Khazraj " (cf. Wright, Arabic Grammar, I, 293 ). Cf. the genealogy given in
Ibn Hajar, I43bah, 11, 16r-62: Dihyah b. Khalifah b. Farwah b. Pa4ilah b. Zayd b.
Imru' al-Qays b. al-Khazraj b. 'Amir b. Bakr b. 'Amir al-Akbar b. 'Awf al-Kalbi. Ed.
Cairo emends al-Khazraji to al-Khazji (the Qamds lists al-Khazj b. 'Amir as an
ancestor of Dihyah).

  433. The Byzantine emperor Heraclius (Arabic Hiraql) ruled 6ro- 41. See Ell,
s.v. Itay$ar, for a list of all the versions of the account of this embassy.

   434. Parallel: Aghini, VI, 94-96.
  435. Arabic: lam na 'man an Id najida amnan. Ed. Leiden, Glossarium, p. cxx,
renders this as persuasum nobis fuit nos securitatem inventuros, which would
mean, "we were convinced that we should find/encounter security ." The com-
pilers of the Glossarium apparently took the second negative as pleonastic . I do not
think it is. The sense of this passage and of the similarly worded one at p. 103,
below, is that Abu Sufyan feared a possible violation of the truce.
   436. "In 627 Heraclius invaded the Persian empire, and in December of that year
won an important victory near ancient Nineveh, but had to retreat shortly after-
wards. In February 628, however, the Persian emperor was assassinated , and the
son who succeeded him desired peace. By about March 628 Heraclius could regard
himself as victorious, but the negotiations for the evacuation of the Byzantine

[[p 126]]
The Events of the Year 6 101

and having received word that his cross had been rescued from [x5621
them (he was staying at IIims437), he set out from there on foot in
thanksgiving to God for restoring it to him, to pray in Jerusa-
lem.438 Carpets were spread out for him, and fragrant herbs were
strewn on them 439 When he reached Jerusalem and performed his
worship-with him were his military commanders and the nobles
of the Romans-he arose troubled one morning, turning his gaze
to the sky. His military commanders said to him, "By God, you
have arisen troubled this morning, 0 King." "Yes," he replied, "I
was shown in a dream last night that the kingdom of the circumci-
sion will be victorious." They said to him: "0 King, we know of
no nation that practices circumcision but the Jews, and they are
under your control and authority. Send to all over whom you have
authority in your lands and command them to behead all the Jews
under their control, and be rid of this care." By God, even as they
were debating this proposal, a messenger from the ruler of
Busra440 arrived leading an Arab-the kings used to send each
other reports-and said: "0 King, this man of the Arabs, the peo-
ple of sheep and camels, will report about something marvelous
that happened in his country. Ask him about it." When the mes-
senger of the ruler of Busra had brought the man to Heraclius, the
latter said to his interpreter, "Ask him what was this event that
happened in his country." So he asked him, and the man said: "A
man has appeared among us claiming to be a prophet. Some people
have followed him and believed him; others have opposed him,
and between them there have been bloody battles in many places.
That was their state when I left them." After he had given Her-

empire by the Persians were not completed until June 629 . In September 629
Heraclius entered Constantinople as victor, and in March 63o restored the Holy
Rood to Jerusalem ." (Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 113-14). See also Ostrogorsky,
History of the Byzantine State, 103-4.

  437. Iiim$ (Emesa) is in Syria , approximately halfway between Damascus and
Aleppo. See E12, s.v. Himg.

  438. I have used the conventional name for the city. The Arabic reads Bayt al-
Maqdis ("House of the Holy Place") in this sentence and lliya' (from Aelia, the
name the Romans gave the city after its recapture in A.D. 70) in the next sentence.
Perhaps Bayt al-Maqdis here refers specifically to the Temple area or to the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre. See EI2, s.v. Duds.

  439. I.e., he vowed to walk to Jerusalem, but tempered the rigor of the vow by
having herb-strewn carpets spread along the way.

  440. See note 423, above.

[[p 127]]
102 The Victory of Islam

           aclius his report, the latter said, "Strip him!" They stripped him,
           and behold he was circumcised. Heraclius said: "This, by God, is
           what I was shown [in the dream]; not what you say! Give him his
           garment, and be gone!"
[1563] Then Heraclius summoned his chief of police and said to him,
           "Turn Syria upside down for me, until you bring me someone
           from the people of this man"-he meant the Prophet. By God,
           while we were still at Gaza, his chief of police assaulted us and
           said, "Are you are from the people of this man in the Hijaz?"
           "Yes," we said. "Off to the king with us!" he said. So we set out
           with him. When we reached the king, he said, "Are you from the
           kindred of this man?" "Yes," we said. "Which of you," he asked,
           "is closest to him in kinship?" " I am," I said. I swear to God, I
           never saw a man I should consider more astute than that uncir-
           cumcised one-Heraclius, that is. "Bring him near," he said. He
           seated me before him and seated my companions behind me; then
           he said: "I will question him. If he lies, refute him." By God, had I
           lied, they would not have refuted me; however, I was a lordly
          person, too noble to lie. Also I knew that, if I lied, the least of the
           matter was that they would hold it against me and speak of it
           concerning me; so I did not lie to him.

             Heraclius said, "Tell me about this man who has emerged
           among you claiming what he claims ." I began minimizing his
           importance to him and disparaging him. "0 King," I said, "do not
           worry about him. His importance is too small to affect you." Pay-
           ing no attention to this, he said, "Tell me whatever I ask you
           about him." I said, "Ask whatever you wish." He said, "What is
           his lineage among you ?" I said, "Pure-the best of us in lineage."
           He asked, "Tell me: has anyone from his family ever said the like
           of what he says, so that he would be imitating him?" "No," I said.
           He said, "Did he have authority among you, of which you then
           stripped him, so that he brought this discourse in order that you
           might restore to him his authority?" "No," I said. He said, "Tell
           me about his followers among you, who they are." I said, "The
           weak, poor, young boys, and women. As for those of his people
[15641 who have years and honor, none of them has followed him." He
           said, "Tell me about those who follow him: Do they love him and
          adhere to him, or do they fall out with him and abandon him?" I
           said, "No man has followed him and then abandoned him." He

[[p 128]]
The Events of the Year 6 103

said, "Tell me how the war between you and him is going." I said,
"Variously-sometimes it is his luck to prevail against us, and
sometimes our luck to prevail against him." He said, "Tell me,
does he act treacherously?" (I found nothing in what he asked me
about him in which I could impugn [Muhammad's] character ex-
cept that.) I said, "No; we are in a state of truce with him, and [yet]
we fear he may act treacherously."

   By God, Heraclius paid no attention to what I had said but
repeated the conversation to me. He said: "I asked what his lin-
eage was among you, and you stated that he was pure, one of your
best in lineage; but that is how God chooses a prophet when He
chooses one-He chooses him only from the best of his people in
lineage. I asked you whether anyone from his family had ever said
what he says, so that he would be imitating him; and you said no. I
asked you whether he had had authority among you, of which you
stripped him, so that he brought this discourse, seeking thereby to
regain his authority; and you said no. I asked you about his fol-
lowers, and you stated that they were the weak, poor, juveniles,
and women; but such have been the followers of the prophets in
every age. I asked you about those who follow him, whether they
love him and adhere to him or fall out with him and abandon him,
and you stated that no man follows him and then abandons him;
but such is the sweetness of faith . It does not enter a heart and
then depart from it. I asked you whether he acts treacherously,
and you said no. And so, if you have told me the truth about him,
he shall surely wrest from me this very ground under my feet.
Would that I were with him that I might wash his feet! Depart to (15651
your business !" So I left his presence, clapping my hands together
and saying, "0 worshipers of God, the affair of the son of Abu
Kabshah441 has become serious. Now the kings of the Greeks442
fear him in their domain in Syria!"

  441. I.e., Muhammad . The dictionaries give various explanations of why the
Meccan pagans nicknamed Muhammad " the son of Abu Kabshah." Abu Kabshah
is supposed to have been a man from the tribe of Khuza 'ah who abandoned the
idolatry of Quraysh and worshiped instead the star Sirius. The pagans called
Muhammad "son of Abu Kabshah " because he, like Abu Kabshah, had departed
from their manner of worship. Others say that Abu Kabshah was the nickname of
Mubammad's maternal grandfather, Wahb b . 'Abd Manif, or that Abu Kabshah
was the husband of Muhammad 's wet nurse. See Lisdn, V, 3812.

  442. Arabic: band a1-agfar "sons of yellow "; various explanations are given in

[[p 129]]
104 The Victory of Islam

  Heraclius received the following letter from the Messenger of
God via Diliyah b. Khalifah al-Kalbi:

         In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
      From Muhammad, the Messenger of God, to Heraclius,
      the ruler of the Romans . Peace to whoever follows right
      guidance!

         To proceed: Submit yourself, and you shall be safe.443
      Submit yourself, and God shall give you your reward twice
      over.444 But, if you turn away, the sin of the Husbandmen
      shall be upon you.445

  According to Sufyan b. Wakl'-Yahya b. Adam-'Abdallah b.
Idris446-Muhammad b. Isl}aq-al-Zuhri-'Ubaydallah b. 'Abdal-
lah b. 'Utbah-Ibn 'Abbas-Abu Sufyan b. Barb, who said: When
the truce between us and the Messenger of God took place in the
year of al-Hudaybiyah, I set out for Syria as a merchant. (Abu
Sufyan then mentioned a report similar to the one transmitted on
the authority of Ibn Humayd-Salamah, except that he added at
the end of it: He took the letter and put it between his thighs and
flanks.)

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-Ibn Shihab
al-Zuhri, who said: A Christian bishop whom I met in the time of
'Abd al-Malik b. Marwan447 told me that he was acquainted with
that affair involving the Messenger of God and Heraclius and his

addition to the reference to the comparatively light complexion of the Greeks. See
Lane, Lexicon, N, 1699-

   443. Arabic: aslim taslam. The meaning of this lapidary and punning utterance
is usually given as "Become a Muslim (or accept Islam), and you shall be safe."
However, because the broader meaning of the verb aslama is "resign, or submit
oneself (to God]," and the remainder of the letter contrasts submission and turning
away, I have translated "submit yourself " to preserve the logic of the letter.

   444. I.e., in this world and in the next.
   445. The Arabic text adds a gloss : "i.e., the bearing of It." The sin of the Hus.
bandmen (akkarun ) may allude to the parable of the Wicked Husbandmen in
Matthew 22: 33-41 (Guillaume's suggestion ). The word akkarun is a Syriac or
Aramaic loanword, cf. Payne Smith, Syriac Dictionary, 17, s.v. akkard, "plough-
man, husbandman," which is "often metaphorical of the apostles , of ministers of
evil, etc." The precise allusion is unclear to me.
   446. 'AbdallAh b. IdrIs, a judge of al-KUfah, lived from ca. 115 /733 to 192/807.
See al-Khalib, Ta'rikh Baghdad, III, 266-69) Ibn H.ajar, Tahdhib, V, 144-46.
   447. The Umayyad caliph 'Abd al-Malik b. Marwi n ruled from 65/685 to
86/705.

[[p 130]]
The Events of the Year 6 1o5

intelligence 448 According to the bishop: When Heraclius received                   [i5661
the letter of the Messenger of God via Dihyah b. Khalifah, he took
it and put it between his thighs and flanks. Then he wrote to a
man in Rome who used to read from the Hebrew what they used
to read,449 mentioning the affair of the man , describing him, and
informing him of what he had received from him. The ruler of
Rome wrote back to him: "He is indeed the prophet we have been
awaiting. There is no doubt about it. Follow him, and believe
him."

   Heraclius then gave orders to gather the commanders of the
Romans for him in a palatial building ,450 and he ordered its doors
to be closed on them. He looked down on them from an upper
chamber of his-he was mortally afraid of them-and said: "Peo-
ple of the Romans, I have assembled you for something good. I
have received this man's letter calling me to his religion. By God,
he is indeed the prophet whom we have been awaiting and whom
we find in our books. Come, let us follow him and believe him,
that our life in this world and the next may be secure." Without
exception they snorted angrily and hastened to the doors of the
building to leave it, but they found that they had been locked.
Heraclius said, "Bring them back to me"-he was mortally afraid
of them-and he said: "People of the Romans, I spoke to you the
speech I spoke to see how steadfast you are in your religion be-
cause of this affair that has occurred. Now I have seen what glad-
dens me on your part." They fell down in obeisance to him; he
ordered the doors of the building to be opened, and they departed.

  According to In Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-a
learned person: Heraclius said to Dihyah b. Khalifah when the
latter brought him the letter of the Messenger of God: "Alas, by
God, I know that your master is a prophet who has been sent and
that he is the one whom we have been awaiting and whom we find
in our book, but I am mortally afraid of the Romans; but for that, I

  448. Translating wa-'aglihi, the voweling of ed . Leiden ed. Cairo vowels
wa- agalahu, "and he understood it."

   449. The exact sense of the Arabic, kdna yagra'u min al- ibrdniyyati and yagra-
'nnahti, is unclear. Perhaps it means not only knowledge of the Hebrew language,

but knowledge of specific prophecies of an Arabian prophet contained in the Bible.
  45o. Arabic: daskarah.

[[p 131]]
io6 The Victory of Islam

115671  would follow him. Go to I?aghalir451 the bishop, and tell him of
        the affair of your master, for he, by God, is greater among the
        Romans than I, and his word has more authority with them. See
        what he says to you."

           So Dihyah went to Ipaghatir and told him what he had brought
        to Heraclius from the Messenger of God and to what he was sum-
        moning him. paghalir said: "Your master, by God, is a prophet
        who has been sent. We know him by his description, and we find
        him by name in our books." Daghalir then went inside, laid off the
        black robes he was wearing, put on white ones, took his staff, and
        came out before the Romans while they were in the church. "Peo-
        ple of the Romans," he said, "a letter has come to us from
        Ahmad,452 summoning us to God. I bear witness that there is no
        god but God and that Ahmad is his servant and messenger." As
        one man they leaped up, attacked him, and beat him to death.
        When Dihyah returned to Heraclius and told him the news, Her-
        aclius said to him, "I told you that we are in mortal fear of them-
        and I7aghalir, by God, was greater in their estimation, and his
        word more authoritative than mine!"

           According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
        Khalid b. Yasar-a very old Syrian, who said: When Heraclius was
        about to leave the land of Syria for Constantinople because of the
        report he had received about the Messenger of God , he assembled
        the Romans and said: "People of the Romans, I shall present cer-
        tain matters to you. Consider what I have decided ." "What are
        they?" they asked. He said: "You know, by God, that this man is a
        prophet who has been sent. We find him in our book. We know
        him by the description whereby he has been described to us. Let us

          451. Ed. Cairo: $aghalir.
           452. Ahmad must be taken as a proper name synonymous with Muhammad.
        Etymologically, both words are adjectival forms from the root la-m-d ("praise") and
        both mean "highly, or most praised." Qaghalir's behavior implies that he expects
        his audience to recognize the name Ahmad. Cf. Qur'an 61:6, where Jesus says to
        the Jews that he brings "good tidings of a messenger who comes after me, whose
        name is Ahmad"-or one might translate, "whose name is more praiseworthy."

        Al-Tabari, I, 1141, records a tradition (placed on the lips of one of the pre-Islamic
        monotheists of Mecca) predicting the coming of a prophet Abmad from the descen-
        dants of Ishmael. (Cf. Watt, "His Name is Abmad," Muslim World, xliii (1953):
        110-17.) Another speculation about allusions to Muhammad's name in the
        Christian scriptures is recorded in IH, 1, 232-33 (tr. Guillaume, 103-4). See also
        E12, s.v. Alamad.

[[p 132]]
The Events of the Year 6 107

follow him, that oui life in this world and the next may be se-
cure." They said, "Shall we be under the hands of the Arabs, when
we are mankind's greatest kingdom, most numerous nation, and
best land?" He said, "Then let me give him tribute453 each year, so
that I can avert his vehemence from me and find rest from his
warfare by means of money that I give to him." They said: "Shall [1568)
we concede to the Arabs [our own] humiliation and abasement by
a tax454 that they take from us, when we are mankind's most
numerous nation, greatest kingdom, and most impregnable land?
By God, we will never do it!" He said, "Then let me make peace
with him on condition that I give him the land of Syria and that he
leave me with the land of al-Sha'm." (The land of Syria was the
land of Palestine, Jordan, Damascus, Him§, and whatever of the
land of Syria was on this side of al-Darb,455 while they considered
whatever was beyond al-Darb to be al-Sha'm.456) They said to him:
"Shall we give him the land of Syria, when you know that it is the
navel of al-Sha'm? By God, we will never do it!" They having
refused him, he said, "By God, you shall see that, if you hold back
from him, you will be defeated in your own city." Then he
mounted a mule of his and departed. When he came in sight of al-
Darb, he turned toward the land of al-Sha'm and said, "Peace be
with you, land of Syria! "-a farewell salutation-and galloped
back to Constantinople.

   According to In Ishaq: The Messenger of God sent Shuja' b.
Wahb, a member of the Banu Asad b. Khuzaymah, to al-Mundhir
b. al-Harith b. Abi Shimr al-Ghassani, the ruler of Damascus.

   According to Muhammad b. 'Umar al-Wagidi: He wrote to him
via Shuja':

  453. Arabic jizyah, later the technical term for the poll tax paid by members of
protected minorities, here is used in the general sense of tribute . See E12, s.v.
Djizya.

  454. Arabic: kharj.
   455. Ancient Derbe, a town near the Cilician Gates, the principal pass between
Anatolia and Syria . See Lane, Lexicon, III, 866.
   456. Arabic al-Sham, which normally means Syria or Damascus , here seems to
be used in the generic sense of "the north." The word used for Syria is Suriyah. The
passage seems to have puzzled the Arabic transmitters, who added the parentheti-
cal note of explanation.

[[p 133]]
io8 The Victory of Islam

                   Peace be with whoever follows right guidance and be-
                lieves in it. I call you to believe in God alone, Who has no
                partner, and your kingdom shall remain yours.

          Shuja' b. Wahb brought the letter to him , and he read it to them.
          Al-Mundhir said: "Who can wrest my kingdom from me? It is I
          who will go against him!" The Prophet said, "His kingdom has
          perished. "457

            According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah--Ibn Ishaq, who said: The
1569] Messenger of God sent 'Amr b. Umayyah al-Ipamri to the Negus

          concerning Ja'far b . Abi Talib458 and his companions , writing the
         following letter for him to take:

                   In the name of God , the Merciful and Compassionate.
                From Muhammad, the Messenger of God, to the Negus al-
                Agham, king of the Ethiopians. May you be at peace! I
                praise to you God, the King, the Most Holy, the Peace, the
                Keeper of Faith, the Watcher,459 and I bear witness that
                Jesus the son of Mary is the Spirit and Word of God, which
                He cast into the goodly and chaste Virgin Mary, so that she
                conceived Jesus; whom God created from His Spirit and
                breathed into him, even as He created Adam by His hand
                and breathed into him. I call you to God alone, Who has no
                partner, to continued obedience to Him, and that you fol-
                low me and believe in what has come to me; for I am the
                Messenger of God.

                   I have sent you my cousin Ja'far and a group of Muslims
                with him. When he comes to you, show them hospitality,
                and do not oppress; for I call you and your armies to God. I
                have communicated sincere advice. Accept my advice!
                Peace be upon whoever follows right guidance!

         The Negus wrote back to the Messenger of God:

                   In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
                To Muhammad, the Messenger of God, from the Negus al-

              457. Another possible translation, " May his kingdom perish!"
                458. A cousin of Muhammad and brother of 'Ali, he had emigrated to Ethiopia
             with a group of Muslims to avoid persecution in Mecca . See al-Tabarl, I, 1180-841
             IH, I, 321-41 (tr. Guillaume, 146-55); E12, s.v. Dha'far b. AM Talib.
                459. Cf. Qur'an 59:23.

[[p 134]]
The Events of the Year 6 109

       A^ham b. Abjar. Peace be upon you, 0 Prophet of God, and
       God's mercy and blessings-from God, other than Whom
       there is no god; Who has guided me to Islam.

          To proceed: I have received your letter, 0 Messenger of
       God, containing what you said about Jesus. By the Lord of
       heaven and earth, Jesus does not exceed by a whit460 what
       you said-he is as you have said. We have acknowledged
       [as true461 the message] wherewith you have been sent to
       us, and we have treated your cousin and his companions
       hospitably. I bear witness that you are the Messenger of
       God, speaking truly and confirming truth. I have sworn
       allegiance to you and sworn allegiance to your cousin. I [1570]
       have submitted myself at his behest to God, the Lord of
       the worlds. I have sent my son Arha b. al-Agham b. Abjar
       to you. I have power only over myself. If you want me to
       come to you, I will, 0 Messenger of God; for I bear witness
       that what you say is true. Peace be upon you, 0 Messenger
       of God.

   According to Ibn Ishaq: I was told that the Negus sent his son
with sixty Ethiopians in a ship. When they were in the middle of
the sea, their ship sank, and they perished.

   According to Muhammad b. 'Umar [al-Wagidi[, who said: The
Messenger of God sent a message to the Negus that he should
marry to him Umm Habibah, the daughter of Abu Sufyan, and
should send her to him along with the Muslims who were with
him. To inform Umm Iiabibah of the marriage proposal, the
Negus sent a slave girl of his named Abrahah to her. Umm Habi-
bah was so overjoyed by the news that she gave Abrahah some of
her silver jewelry and a ring.462 The Negus commanded Umm
Habibah to appoint someone as her agent to give her in marriage,
and she appointed Khalid b. Said b. al= Aq. He gave her in mar-
riage: the Negus spoke on behalf of the Messenger of God, and
Khalid spoke [for Umm Habibah] and gave Umm Habibah in mar-

  460. Arabic: thufraq, the round part of the covering at the base of a date, where it
joins the stalk.

  461. For this interpretation of 'arafna ma buithta bihi ilayna, see ed. Leiden,
Glossarium, p. CCCLVIII, which tranlates 'arafa ma gala as pro recto agnovit.

  462. Arabic: awdah, fatakh. The first term refers either to silver jewelry made
from coins or to anklets; the second term refers to unjeweled rings for the fingers or
toes.

[[p 135]]
i ro The Victory of Islam

[1571]  riage. The Negus called for 400 dinars as her bride gift and handed
        them to Khalid b. Said. When the money came to Umm
        I iabibah-it was Abrahah who brought it-Umm Habibah gave
        her fifty mithgdls,463 saying, "I gave you that464 when I possessed
        nothing, but now God, Who is mighty and exalted, has brought
        this!" Abrahah said, "The king has commanded me not to take
        anything from you and to return to you what I took from you"-
        and she returned it 465 "I am the mistress of the king's ointments
        and garments. I believe Muhammad the Messenger of God and
        trust in him . All I ask you is to greet him for me." Umm Habibah
        said that she would. [Abrahah said,] "The king has ordered his
        women to send you the aloes wood and ambergris they have." The

        Messenger of God used to perceive it on her and in her quarters,

        and he did not disapprove of it.
          According to Umm Habibah, who said: We departed in two

        ships, and he sent sailors with us. We landed at al-Jar466 and rode
        animals to Medina. We found that the Messenger of God was at
        Khaybar, and some went out to him. I stayed in Medina until the
        Messenger of God returned and I entered his presence. He used to
        question me about the Negus. I greeted him from Abrahah, and he
        responded to her greeting.

           When Abu Sufyan learned that the Prophet had been married to
        Umm Habibah, he said, "That stallion' s nose is not to be

        restrained! "467
          In this year, the Messenger of God sent the following letter to

        Kisra468 via 'AbdallAh b. Hudhafah al-Sahmi:

          463. Usually mithgdi is a synonym for dinar, although a smaller coin may be

        intended.
          464. I.e., the silver jewelry and ring mentioned above.
          465. Ed. Cairo: "and I have returned it" or "I hereby return it" (making these

        words part of the speech of Abrahah).
          466. Al-Jar, on the bay of Buraykah south of modem Yanbu', was a Red Sea port a

        day's journey from Medina; see Yaqut, Mu'jam al-buldan, III, 34-36, E12, s.v.

        al-D9r.
          467. For the proverb, see Freytag, Arabum Proverbia, II, 869, Lisdn, V, 3 5 5 r (s.v.

        q-d-) and 3595 (s.v. q-r'). The meaning is that he is a match not to be rejected as
        unequal to the bride. The Lisan explains : "One would bring a thoroughbred camel
        mare to someone who had a stallion and ask him to have his stallion service the
        mare, but if he led out a stallion with no pedigree, one would strike it on the nose to
        signify that one did not want it."

           468. See note 426, above.

[[p 136]]
The Events of the Year 6  111

         In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.                          [1572[
       From Muhammad, the Messenger of God, to Kisra, the
       ruler of Persia. Peace be with whoever follows right guid-
       ance, believes in God and His Messenger, and testifies that
       there is no god but God and that I am the Messenger of
       God to all mankind, to warn whoever is alive.469 Submit
       yourself, and you shall be safe. If you refuse, the sin of the
       Magians470 shall be upon you.

Kisra tore up the letter of the Messenger of God. The Messenger of
God said, "His kingdom has been torn up."471

   According to Ibn IIumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq--
Yazid b. Abi Habib, who said: He sent 'Abdallah b. Hudhafah b.
Qays b. 'Adi b. Said b. Sahm to Kisra the son of Hurmuz, the king
of Persia, with the following letter:

         In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
      From Muhammad, the Messenger of God, to Kisra, the
      ruler of Persia. Peace be upon whoever follows right guid-
      ance, believes in God and His Messenger, and testifies that
      there is no god but God alone, Who has no partner, and
      that Muhammad is His servant and His messenger. I sum-
      mon you with the summons of God; for I am the Mes-
      senger of God to all mankind, to warn whoever is alive,
      and that the word may be fulfilled against the un-
      believers.472 Submit yourself, and you shall be safe. If you
      refuse, the sin of the Magians shall be upon you.

When KisrA read it, he tore it up and said, "He writes this to me
when he is my servant!"

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
'Abdallah b. Abl Bakr-al-Zuhrl-Abu Salamah b. 'Abd al-
Rahman b. 'Awf:473 'Abdallah b. Hudhafah delivered the letter of

   469. Cf. Qur'an 36:69.
   470. Arabic: al-Majus, the ordinary word for Zoroastrians . See E12, s.v. Mad2us.
   471. Alternative translation : "May his kingdom be torn up!"
   472. Cf. Qur'an 36:69.
   473. As mentioned earlier, p. 95, above, Abu Salamah b. 'Abd al-Raliman b. 'Awf
was the son of the Emigrant 'Abd al-Raliman b. Awf by Tuma4ir bt. al-A$bagh al-
Kalbiyyah. He died ca. 94/712-13. See Ibn I•iajar, Tahdhib, XII, 115-18.

[[p 137]]
112 The Victory of Islam

[15731  the Messenger of God to Kisra. When the latter had read it, he tore
        it in half. When the Messenger of God heard that he had torn his
        letter, he said, "His kingdom has been torn up."474

           [Muhammad b. Ishag] then resumed the report of Yazid b. Abi
        I;iabib, who said: Kisra then wrote to Badhan, who was governor of
        Yemen, saying, "Send two strong men of yours after this man in
        the Hijaz, and have them bring him to me." So Badhan sent his
        steward Babawayh, who was a scribe and accountant, with the
        writ of Persia, and with him he sent a Persian named Khur-
        rakhusrah.475 He wrote a letter to be taken by them to the Mes-
        senger of God, commanding him to go back with the two men to
        Kisra. He said to Babawayh, "Go to this man's land, speak to him,
        and bring me a report about him." So the two men set out. Having
        reached al-Ta'if,476 they found some men of Quraysh at Nakhib477
        in the territory of al-Ta'if and asked them about him. They said
        that he was at Medina. The men of Quraysh were delighted and
        glad to have met the two men; they said to one another : "Rejoice!
        Kisra, the king of kings, has become his enemy. You have become
        rid of the man."

          The two men set out and reached the Messenger of God.
        Babawayh addressed him, saying : "The shah of shahs and king of
        kings, Kisra, has written to King Badhan, commanding him to
        send someone to you to bring you to him. Badhan has sent me to
        you so that you may go back with me. If you do, he will write
        concerning you to the king of kings on your behalf and will keep
        him from you. If you refuse, you know who he is! He will destroy
        you, destroy your people, and lay waste to your lands."

          Now the two men had come before the Messenger of God hav-
        ing shaved their beards but left their mustaches , so that he
        disliked looking at them. He turned to them and said, "Alas, who
        ordered you to do this?" They said, "Our lord"- meaning Kisra-
        "ordered us to do it." The Messenger of God said, "But my Lord

           474. See note 471, above.

          475. So vocalized by ed. Cairo.
          476. The city of al-Ta'if lies in the mountains about forty miles southeast of
        Mecca. See Eli s.v., Yaqut, Mu' jam a]-bulddn, s.v.
          477. Yaqut, Mu'jam al- bulddn, VIII, 272, lists a valley by this name in al-TA'if.

[[p 138]]
The Events of the Year 6 113

has ordered me to leave my beard and clip my mustache."478 Then                         [15741
he said to them, "Go away, and come to me tomorrow."

  Then a message from heaven came to the Messenger of God that
God had incited against Kisra his son Shirawayh. He had killed
him in such, and such a month, on such and such -a night of the
month, after such and such hours of the night had passed.479 God
incited his son Shirawayh against him, and he killed him.

  According to al-Wagidi: Shirawayh killed his father, Kisra, the
eve of Tuesday, the Loth day of Jumada I of the year 7, at the sixth
hour of the night 48o

   Resumption of the account of Muhammad b. Ishaq-Yazid b.
Abi Habib: He summoned the two men and told them the news.
They said: "Do you know what you are saying? We have reproved
you for what is less than this. Shall we write this on your author-
ity and report it to the king?"48I "Yes," he said, "report it to him
from me, and tell him that my religion and my dominion shall
reach as far as the kingdom of Kisra has reached and extend to the
utmost reach of camel's pad and horse's hoof. Say to him, 'If you
submit yourself,482I will give you what you possess and make you

   478. For a list of laadiths on the subject see Wensinck, Concordance, III, 91, s.v.
sharib.

   479. The text has been corrupted by the copyist. I have translated the recon-
struction proposed by the Leiden editor.

   480. Al-Wagidi's date ( 1$ September 628) conflicts with a previously cited tradi-
tion (al-Tabari, I, 1009 ), according to which Muhammad learned of the death of
Kisra (i.e., Khusrau II Parviz, ruled 591 -628) "on the day of al-lludaybiyah "-i.e.,
sometime in Dhu al-Qa'dah (began 13 March 6281 of A.H. 6. This corresponds
closely to the date of the deposition of Khusrau II in February 628 in a coup
involving Khusrau 's son, Kavadh II Sheroe (Qubadh II Shirawayh ), and generals
exasperated by Khusrau's refusal to conclude peace with the Byzantine emperor
Heraclius after his military defeats . Shirawayh's letter, quoted in the next para-
graph, alludes to the army 's discontent. The exact date of Khusrau 's death is un-
known. The History of Heraclius by the Armenian bishop Sebeos says he was
killed immediately. A tradition preserved in al-Tabari, I, I045 -61, has Shirawayh
prepare a detailed indictment of Khusrau 's misdeeds, to which Khusrau replied-

implying a lapse of time between the deposition and the killing of Khusrau.
Sheroe/Shirawayh ruled only briefly (six or eight months ) and was dead by the fall

of 628 . See Christensen, L'Iran sous les Sassanides, 493-97; Cambridge History of
Iran, III/1 , 170; and Ostrogorsky, History of the Byzantine State, 103.

  481. I.e., to the governor of Yemen, who is given the title of malik (king) in the
Arabic.

   482. Or, "if you become a Muslim."

[[p 139]]
114 The Victory of Islam

[1575[  king over your people, the Abna'."'483 Then he gave Khur-
        rakhusrah a belt containing gold and silver that one of the kings
        had given him. The two men departed from him. They came to
        Badhan and told him the news. He said: "By God, this is not the
        language of a king. I think the man is a prophet as he says. Let us
        await the event of what he has said. If it proves true, there is no
        disputing that he is indeed a prophet who has been sent. If it does
        not prove true, we shall consider what to do concerning him."
        Soon Badhan received Shirawayh's letter, which said:

                 To proceed: I have killed Kisra. I killed him only out of
              zeal for Persia, because he allowed himself to kill its no-
              bles and detain them on the frontiers. When you receive
              this letter of mine, secure for me the obedience of those
              who are with you. See to the man about whom Kisra wrote
              to you, and do not provoke him until you receive my order
              concerning him.

        When Shirawayh's letter reached Badhan, he said, "This man is
        indeed a messenger," and he became a Muslim, and the Abna'-
        those from Persia who were in Yemen-became Muslims with
        him. (The people of I;Iimyar484 used to call Khurrakhusrah Dhu al-
        Mi'jazah, because of the belt that the Messenger of God gave to
        him. 'Belt' in the language of Himyar is mi'jazah. His sons today
        take their surname from it: [sons of J Khurrakhusrah Dhu al-
        Mi'jazah.) Babawayh said to Badhan, "Never have I spoken to a
        man more awesome to me than he was." Badhan said, "Does he
        have picked troops?" "No," he replied.

          According to al-Wagidi: In this year he wrote to al-Muqawqis,
        the ruler of the Copts, summoning him to Islam, but he did not
        become a Muslim.

          According to Abu Ja'far [al-Tabari[: When the Messenger of God

          483. The Abna ' ("Sons") were the Persian residents of Yemen, descendants of
        the Persians said to have come with Sayf b . Dhi Yazan. They were also called Abni'
        al-4rar ("Sons of the Free "). See ed. Leiden, Glossarium, p. cxt.n1 E12, s.v. al-

        Abna'.
          484. Himyar was a south Arabian tribe whose kingdom flourished before Islam.

        Here it is used loosely for Yemen.

[[p 140]]
The Events of the Year 6 115

returned to Medina from the expedition to al-Hudaybiyah, he re-
mained there for the month of Dhu al -Iiijjah and part of al-
Muharram (according to the account of In Iiumayd-Salamah-
Ibn Is1}aq ). The polytheists were in charge of the pilgrimage in that
year.

[[p 141]]
16

                 The
        Events of the Year

                       7

        (MAY ii, 628-APRIL 30, 629)

        40

        The Expedition to Khaybar485

115761  Then the year 7 began. The Messenger of God set out for
        Khaybar486 in the remainder of al-Mubarram, leaving Sibs' b.
        'Urfutah al-Ghifari in charge of Medina. He traveled and halted
        with his army at a valley called al-Raji',487 encamping between
        the people of Khaybar and [the tribe of ] Ghatafan (according to the
        account from In Humayd--Salamah-Ibn Is)+iaq) to prevent the
        latter from aiding the people of Khaybar, for they were going to
        back them against the Messenger of God.

           It has been reported to me that, when Ghatafan heard that the
        Messenger of God had encamped near Khaybar, they assembled
        because of him and set out to aid the Jews against him. Having
        traveled a day's journey, they heard a sound behind them in their
        possessions and families. Thinking that the enemy had come at
        them from behind, they turned back and stayed with their fam-
        ilies and possessions, leaving the way to Khaybar open to the

           485. Parallels : W, II, 633-7051 IH, I1I3328-53 (tr. Guillaume, 51o-231.
          486. Khaybar is an oasis about 95 miles ( iSo km) north of Medina. Its inhabi-
        tants at this time were mostly Jews engaged in agriculture and commerce. L.
        Veccia Vaglieri's article in EI2, s.v. Khaybar, discusses the attack and its motives.
           487. This is not to be confused with the similarly named al-Raji' near al-Tg'if,

        where a small party of Muslims was betrayed in AN. 4 (see al-Tabarl, I, 1473(1 see

        Yaqut, Mu'jam al-bulddn, IV, 228-29.

[[p 142]]
The Events of the Year 7 117

Messenger of God. The Messenger of God began taking herds and                          [1577]
property bit by bit and conquering Khaybar fortress by fortress.
The first of their fortresses that he conquered was the fortress of
Na'im. Mahmud b . Maslamah was killed at it-a millstone was
hurled on him from it and killed him. Next was al-Qamu§, the
fortress of lbn Abi al-Hugayq. The Messenger of God took some of
its people captive, including $afiyyah bt. Iluyayy b. Akhtab (the
wife of Kinanah b. al-Rabi' b. Abi al-llugayq) and two daughters of
her paternal uncle. The Messenger of God chose $afiyyah for him-
self. Dihyah al-Kalbi had asked the Messenger of God for $afiyyah;
when the latter chose her for himself, he gave Dihyah her two
cousins . The captives of Khaybar were divided among the Mus-
lims. Then the Messenger of God began taking the fortresses and
property that were closest to him.

   According to Ibn l jumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr-a member of the Aslam: The Banu Sahm,
who were a part of Aslam,488 came to the Messenger of God and
said, "Messenger of God, by God we have been struck by drought
and possess nothing." But they found that the Messenger of God
had nothing to give them. So the Prophet said: "0 God, Thou
knowest their condition-that they have no strength and that I
have nothing to give them. Open to them [for conquest] the great-
est of the fortresses of Khaybar, the one most abounding in food
and fat meat." The next morning God opened the fortress of al-
$a'b b. Mu'adh for them [to conquer). There was no fortress in
Khaybar more abounding in food and fat meat than it.

  After the Messenger of God had conquered some of their for-
tresses and taken some of the property, they reached their for-
tress489 of al-Walih and al-Sulalim, which was the last of the for-
tresses of Khaybar to be conquered. The Messenger of God
besieged the inhabitants between thirteen and nineteen nights.

  According to Ibn IIumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-

   488. See note 297, above.
   489. IH, III, 332, reads "their two fortresses "; cf. p. 123, below. The confusion
may be due to the division of the oasis into three regions (al-Nalah, al-Shiqq, and
al-Kato-bah), each containing several fortresses and separated from the other regions

by wadis, lava fields, or swamps. See EI2, s.v. Khaybar.

[[p 143]]
i i 8 The Victory of Islam

        'AbdallAh b. Sahl b. 'Abd al-Rahman b. Sahl (a member of the Banu
        I iarithah)-Jabir b. 'Abdallah al-An$ri, who said: Marhab the Jew
        sallied forth from their fortress490 fully armed, reciting the follow-
        ing verses in rajaz meter:

        Khaybar knows well that I am Marhab,
             whose weapon is sharp, a warrior tested.

        Sometimes I thrust with spear; sometimes I strike with sword.
             When lions advance in their rage,

        My territory is territory unapproachable.

(15781  He said, "Is there anyone who will come out for single combat?"
        The Messenger of God said, "Who will take him on?" Muhammad
        b. Maslamah stood up and said: "I will take him on, Messenger of
        God. By God, I have had a relative slain and seek revenge, for they
        killed my brother yesterday." The Messenger of God said: "Arise
        and go to him! 0 God, help him against him!" When each drew
        near the other, an ancient 'ushar bush491 came between them.
        Each of them began using it as a refuge from the other, but, when-
        ever one took refuge in it, the other would cut with his sword the
        part of it separating him from his adversary. Finally each was
        exposed to the other, and the bush between them came to be like a
        man standing, with no branches between the two. Then Marhab
        attacked Muhammad and struck him. Muhammad warded him
        off with his shield,492 and Marbab's sword landed in the shield,
        which gripped it and held it fast. Muhammad b. Maslamah struck
        him and killed him.

           After the death of Marhab, his brother Yasir came forth reciting
        the following verses:

        Khaybar knows well that I am Yasir,
             whose weapon is sharp, a warrior-raider.

        When lions advance swiftly
             and raiders shrink from my assault,

        In my territory death is a dweller.

          490. For a photograph of the ruins traditionally identified as Qagr Marlab (Mar.
        lab's Castle), see Hamidullah, Battlefields, 5r.

          49r. Identified as Asclepias gigantea (giant swallowwort) and described in Lane,

        Lexicon, V, 205 r.
           492. Arabic: daragah, see note 365, above.

[[p 144]]
The Events of the Year 7 119

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-                                (15791
Hisham b. 'Urwah:493 Al-Zubayr b. al-'Awwam went out against
Yasir. Al-Zubayr's mother, $afiyyah bt. 'Abd al-Muttalib, asked,
"Messenger of God, is he going to kill my son?" "No," he replied,
"your son will kill him, God willing." Al-Zubayr went out

reciting:

Khaybar knows well that I am Zabbar,494
     chief of folk who do not turn back and flee;

A son of defenders of glory, a son of the best.
     Yasir, let the unbelievers' host not deceive you:

Their host is like a slow-moving mirage.

Then the two met, and al-Zubayr killed him.
  According to Ibn Bashshar-Muhammad b. Ja'far-'Awf495-

Maymun (Abu 'Abdallah)496-'Abdallah b. Buraydah497-
Buraydah al-Aslami,498 who said: When the Messenger of God
encamped at the fortress of the people of Khaybar, he gave the
banner to Umar b. al-Khattab. Some of the people set out with
him, and they encountered the people of Khaybar. 'Umar and his
companions were put to flight. When they returned to the Mes-
senger of God, 'Umar's companions accused him of cowardice,
and he accused them of the same. The Messenger of God said,
"Tomorrow I shall give the banner to a man who loves God and
His Messenger and whom God and His Messenger love." The next
day, Abu Bakr and'Umar vied for the banner, but the Messenger of
God called 'Ali, who was suffering from inflamed eyes, and, hav-
ing spat on his eyes, gave him the banner. Some of the people set

   493. Hisham b. 'Urwah b. al-Zubayr, the son of Urwah b. al-Zubayr, was bom
ca. 61/680 in Medina and died in 146/763 in Baghdad. He was a transmitter of
traditions and a jurist. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 48-51; GAS, 1, 88-89.

  494. Zabbdr ("extremely strong ") is an intensive adjective from the root of his
name. The line ends in a pun, also conditioned by the need for a rhyme.

   495. 'Awf b. Abi Jamilah al-Arabi lived from 59/678 to 146 or 147/763-65. See
Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 166-67.

  496. Identified by the index to the Cairo ed. as Abu 'Abdallah Maymun, the
mawla of 'Abd al-Rahman b. Samurah.

   497. 'Abdallah b. Buraydah b. al-II Iu$ayb al-Aslami, supposedly born in 16/637,
died as judge of Marv, perhaps as late as 115/733• See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 157-
58.

  498. Buraydah b. al-Hugayb al-Aslami died between 6o and 64/679-84. See Ibn
Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 432-33.

[[p 145]]
120 The Victory of Islam

        out with him. When 'Ali met the people of Khaybar, there was
        Marhab reciting his verses:

        Khaybar knows well that I am Marhab,
             whose weapon is sharp, a warrior tested.

        Sometimes I thrust with spear; sometimes I strike with sword,
             when lions advance in burning rage.

1158o]   He and 'All exchanged two blows. Then 'Ali struck him on his
         head, so that the sword bit firmly into it 499 The people of the
         army heard his blow . Even before the last of the people had joined
         'All, God gave him and them the victory.

            According to Abu Kurayb-Yiinus b. Bukayr5OO-al-Musayyab
         b. Muslim al-Awdi-'Abdallah b. Buraydah-his father [Buraydah
         b. al-Iiugayb], who said: The Messenger of God often had mi-
         graines and would remain a day or two without coming out. When
         the Messenger of God encamped at Khaybar, he came down with
        migraine and did not come out to the people. Abu Bakr took the
         banner of the Messenger of God, set out and fought vigorously,
         and then came back. Then 'Umar took it, fought with even more
         vigor than the first fighting, and then came back. When the Mes-
         senger of God was informed of this, he said, "By God, tomorrow I
         shall give it to a man who loves God and His Messenger, whom
         God and His Messenger love, and who will take it in humble
         obedience."50' Because 'All was not there, the Quraysh502 vied for
         it, each of them hoping to be its bearer . In the morning, 'Ali came
         on his camel and made it kneel down near the tent of the Mes-
         senger of God. He was suffering from inflamed eyes and had ban-

          499. Literally, "bit into it with its teeth ." Perhaps this alludes to the tradition
        that 'Ali's sword, Dhu al-Faqir, had notches or ridges or that it was two-pointed.
        Cf. EP, s.v. Dhu'1--Fa$5r. Another possibility, suggested by the parallel below (p.
        121), is that the sword "bit into the (rear] teeth of it [viz. his head]."

           500. Yunus b. Bukayr b . Wail al-Shaybani (died 199 /815( transmitted a recen-

        sion of Ibn Is)?aq's biography of the Prophet, later condensed by Ibn Hishim. See

        Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 434) GAS, I, 146, 289.
          5o1. Arabic 'anwatan , which can also mean "by force " or "by compulsion." It is

        possible that the second "it" refers, not to the banner, but to another feminine
        word left to be understood from the context, such as "the city" (al-madinah)-cf.
        p. 121 below, where the word occurs. In that case, the fact that Khaybar fell to the
        Muslims "by compulsion " had legal implications for the disposition of the booty
        and the status of the inhabitants.

           502. I.e., the Emigrants.

[[p 146]]
The Events of the Year 7 121

daged them with a strip of Qatari cloth.503 The Messenger of God
asked, "What is wrong?" 'Ali replied, "My eyes are still inflamed."
The Messenger of God said, "Come near me." 'All came near him,
and he spat in his eyes. The pain departed immediately. He gave
`Ali the banner, and 'Ali set out with it. He was wearing a suit of
reddish purple whose fringes504 were of two colors, white and red.

  When 'Ali came to the city of Khaybar, Marliab, the master of
the fortress, came out wearing a safflower-dyed Yemeni neck pro-
tector (mighfar) and a stone in which he had bored holes like a
helmet on his head. He was reciting the following verse:

Khaybar knows well that I am Marliab,
     whose weapon is sharp, a warrior tested.

'All recited:

I am he whose mother named him Lion:506
     I will mete you out sword blows by the bushel-

A lion in thickets, powerful, mighty.

They exchanged two blows. Then 'Ali struck him a swift blow                              [1581]
that split the stone, the neck protector, and his head and landed in
his rear teeth; and he took the city.

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
'Abdallah b. al-Hasan506-a member of his family-Abu Rafi',507
the mawla of the Messenger of God, who said: We went out with
`Ali b. Abi Talib, when the Messenger of God sent him forth with
his banner. When he approached the fortress, its inhabitants came
out against him, and he fought them. One of the Jews hit him and
knocked his shield out of his hand; so 'Ali picked up a door that
was by the fortress and shielded himself with it. It remained in his
hand while he fought until God granted him victory, then he
threw it aside when he was finished. I can see myself with seven

   503. A kind of reddish cloth ornamented with large figures, see ed. Leiden,

Glossarium, p. CDXXVII.

   504. Arabic: hhaml, perhaps "nap."
   Sos. Arabic J.raydar. The word used for lion in the last line of the poem is layth,
another of the many synonyms in Arabic for the lion. See 812, s.v. Asad.
   5o6. Identified in ed. Cairo, Index, as'Abdallah b. al-Hasan b, al-Hasan b . 'All b.
Abi Talib.
  507. His name was Ruwayfi '. See the biography given in Poonawala, Last Years,

14311, 1778-791.

[[p 147]]
122 The Victory of Islam

           other men in a group straining to turn that door over and unable to
           do it.

             According to Ibn I iumayd-Salamah--Ibn Isliaq, who said: Af-
           ter the Messenger of God conquered al-Qamuq, the fortress of In
           Abi al-Iiugayq, $afiyyah bt. Huyayy b. Akhtab was brought to
           him, and another woman with her. B.ilal, who was the one who
           brought them, led them past some of the slain Jews. When the
           woman who was with $afiyyah saw them, she cried out, struck
           her face, and poured dust on her head. When the Messenger of God
           saw her, he said, "Take this she-devil away from me!" He com-
           manded that $afiyyah should be kept behind him and that his
           cloak should be cast over her. Thus the Muslims knew that the
           Messenger of God had chosen her for himself. The Messenger of
           God said to Bilal (according to what I have received) when he saw
[1582] the Jewish woman doing what he saw her do, "Are you devoid of
           mercy, Bilal, that you take two women past their slain men?"

             When $afiyyah became the bride of Kinanah b. al-Rabi' b. Abi
          Hugayq, she dreamt that a moon had fallen into her lap. She told
          her vision to her husband, and he said, "That is only because you
          are wishing for the king of the Iiijaz, Muhammad"-and he gave
          her face a slap that blackened her eye. She was brought to the
          Messenger of God with the traces of it still there; he asked her
          what it was, and she told him this story.

             According to Ibn Isliaq: Kinanah b. al-Rabi` b. Abi al-Hugayq,
          who had the treasure of the Band al-Nadir ,508 was brought to the
          Messenger of God, who questioned him; but he denied knowing
          where it was. Then the Messenger of God was brought a Jew who
          said to him, "I have seen Kinanah walk around this ruin every
          morning." The Messenger of God said to Kinanah: "What do you
          say? If we find it in your possession, I will kill you."509 "All right,"
          he answered. The Messenger of God commanded that the ruin
          should be dug up, and some of the treasure was extracted from it.
          Then he asked him for the rest of it. Kinanah refused to surrender
          it; so the Messenger of God gave orders concerning him to al-
          Zubayr b. al-'Awwam, saying, "Torture him until you root out

                  508. See note 26, above.
                  509. Ed. Cairo: "shall I kill you?"

[[p 148]]
The Events of the Year 7 123

what he has." Al-Zubayr kept twirling his firestick in his breasteio                   (1583]
until Kinanah almost expired; then the Messenger of God gave
him to Muhammad b. Maslamah, who beheaded him to avenge
his brother Mahmud b. Maslamah.

   The Messenger of God besieged the people of Khaybar in their
two fortresses of al-Watib and al-Sulalim. Finally, when they were
certain that they would perish, they asked him to banish them and
spare their lives, which he did. The Messenger of God had already
taken all the property-al-Shiqq, Nalah, al-Katibah, and all their
fortresses-except what belonged to those two fortresses. When
the people of Fadak511 heard of what they had done, they sent
word to the Messenger of God, asking him to banish them and
spare their lives, and they would leave him their property; and he
did so. Among the men who mediated between them and the
Messenger of God in the matter was Muhayyi§ah b. Masud, a
member of the Banu Harithah. When the people of Khaybar sur-
rendered on these terms, they asked the Messenger of God to
employ them on the properties for a half share. They said, "We
know more about them than you and are better cultivators of
them." So the Messenger of God made peace with them for a half
share, provided that "if we want to make you leave, we may." The
people of Fadak made peace with him on similar terms. Khaybar
became the booty (fay') of the Muslims; Fadak belonged ex-
clusively to the Messenger of God, because the Muslims had not
attacked its people with horses or camels.e12

  When the Messenger of God rested from his labor, Zaynab bt. al-
Harith, the wife of Sallam b. Mishkam, served him a roast sheep.
She had asked what part of the sheep the Messenger of God liked
best and was told that it was the foreleg. So she loaded that part
with poison, and she poisoned the rest of the sheep, too. Then she
brought it. When she set it before the Messenger of God, he took
the foreleg and chewed a bit of it, but he did not swallow it. With
him was Bishr b. al-Bars' b. Ma'rur, who, like the Messenger of

  510. Possibly (as Guillaume translates the parallel from In Hisham ), "he kin-
dled a fire " with his firestick on his chest (not, however, with flint and steel, as
Guillaume would have it). The firestick (zand) was a stick of wood that could be
twirled rapidly in an indentation in a second piece of wood to produce fire.

  511. See note 410, above.

   512. This echoes the language of Qur 'an 17:64.

[[p 149]]
124 The Victory of Islam

          God, took some of it, Bishr, however, swallowed it, while the
          Messenger of God spat it out, saying, "This bone informs me that
          it has been poisoned ." Then he summoned the woman, and she
          confessed. He asked, "What led you to do this?" She said: "How
[15841 you have afflicted my people is not hidden from you. So I said, `If
          he is a prophet, he will be informed; but if he is a king, I shall be rid
           of him." The Prophet forgave her. Bishr b. al-Bars' died of the food
          he had eaten.

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Isl}aq-
           Marwan b. 'Uthman b. Abi Said b. al-Mu'alla,513 who said: The
           Messenger of God said during the illness from which he died-the
           mother of Bishr b. al-Bara' had come in to visit him-"Umm
           Bishr, at this very moment I feel my aorta being severed514 be-
           cause of the food I ate with your son at Khaybar." The Muslims
          believed that in addition to the honor of prophethood that God
           had granted him the Messenger of God died a martyr.

             According to Ibn Ishaq: After the Messenger of God had finished
          with Khaybar, he returned to Wadi al-Qura and besieged its people
           for some nights; then he returned to Medina.

                      The Expedition of the Messenger of God
                                     to Wadi al-Qura

           According to Ibn Humayd- Salamah-Ibn Isl}aq-Thawr b.
           Zayd515-_Salim, the mawla of 'Abdallah b. Muli1516-Abu
           Hurayrah, who said: After we returned with the Messenger of God
           from Khaybar to Wadi al-Qura, we halted late in the afternoon
           toward sunset. With the Messenger of God was a slave lad of his
           whom Rifa'ah b. Zayd al-judhami (and al-l7ubaybi)517 had given

                513. Marwan b. 'Uthman b. Said b. al-Mu'alli al-AnIarl al-Zurql Aba 'Uthman
             is listed in In Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 95, as being from Medina, but without dates.

                514. The expression gafa'a abharahu "it severed his aorta" need not be taken
             literally; it is used metaphorically for extreme pain . See Lane, Lexicon, 1, 266.

                S I S. Thawr b. Zayd al -Dili was a mawld born in Medina who died in 135/752-
              53. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, II, 31-32.

                516. Salim Abii al-Ghayth, mawla of In Muli ', is listed without dates in Ibn
             Hajar, Tahdhib, III, 445 .

                517. I.e., of the al-I)ubayb subdivision of the tribe of Judham. One manuscript
             reads al-pabini, which is also possible.

[[p 150]]
The Events of the Year 7 125

him. Suddenly, as we were setting down the saddle of the Mes- [is 85 )
senger of God, a stray arrow came and hit the slave, killing him.
We said, "May he enjoy Paradise!" But the Messenger of God said,
"No; by Him who holds Muhammad's soul in His hand, his cloak
is now being burnt on him in the Fire!" He had pilfered it from the
booty of the Muslims at the battle of Khaybar. Having heard these
words, one of the companions of the Messenger of God came to
him and said, "Messenger of God, I took two thongs for my san-
dals." He replied, "Two similar ones of fire will be cut for you!"

   During this journey, the Messenger of God and his companions
overslept the dawn prayer until the sun had already risen.

   According to Ibn llumayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-al-Zuhri-
Sa'id b. al-Musayyab, who said: After the Messenger of God had
left Khaybar and was on the road, he said late at night, "Who will
watch for dawn for us, so that we can sleep?" Bilal said, "I will
watch for you, Messenger of God." So the Messenger of God
halted, and the people halted, and they went to sleep. Bilal stood
praying. Having prayed for a time, he leaned against his camel and
turned himself in the direction of the dawn to watch for it, but his
eye overcame him and he fell asleep. It was only the touch of the
sun that woke them. The Messenger of God was the first among
his companions to wake from sleep, and he asked, "What have you
done to us, Bilal?" "Messenger of God," he replied, "what over-
came your soul overcame mine also." "You are right," he said.
Then the Messenger of God led [his camel) a short distance and
made it kneel down. He performed ablutions, and the people also
performed them. Then he commanded Bilal to give the call to
prayer, and he led the people in worship. After he had recited the
peace,518 he turned to the people and said, "If you forget the
prayer, pray it when you remember it; for God says, 'Perform the
prayer on remembering Me."'519

   518. I.e., after he had finished praying: the ritual of $a18h ends with a twofold
salutation, "Peace be upon you and God's mercy," usually explained as being
recited by the worshiper to the attending angels at his right and left.

   Sig. Qur'an 20:14. The usual translation is "perform the prayer for/of (Arabic li-)
My remembrance." However, the context implies reference to the time of prayer,
not its purpose . Beside indicating purpose, li- can mark the time from which or at
which something took place. Cf. Wright, Grammar, II, 15 1.

[[p 151]]
126 The Victory of Islam

[1586] According to Ibn Ishaq: The conquest of Khaybar took place in
           $afar.520 Some Muslim women were present with the Messenger
           of God. The Messenger of God gave them small gifts from the
          booty, but he did not assign them a share.

        The Affair of al-Haffili b. Tat a]-Sulam!

[x5871  After Khaybar had been conquered, al-Ilajjaj b. 'Ilat al-Sulami (and

        al-Bahzi)521 said to the Messenger of God: "Messenger of God, I

        have property in Mecca with my wife Umm Shaybah bt. Abi
        Talhah "-she was his wife, and he had a son, Mu'arrici b. al-Hajjaj,
        by her-"and property dispersed among the merchants of Mecca.
        Give me leave to go, Messenger of God." The Messenger of God
        gave him leave. Then al-Ilajjaj said, "It will be necessary for me for
        me to say [something ]."522 "Say [whatever you want],"523 he said.

              According to al-Hajjaj , who said: I departed and arrived in
        Mecca. On the mountain trail at al-Bayda'524 I met some men

        from Quraysh who were eager to hear news and were asking about
        what had happened to the Messenger of God . They had heard that

        he had gone to Khaybar and knew that it was the leading town of

        the Ilijaz in fertility, defenses, and men) so they were seeking
        news. When they saw me, they said: "Al-Hajjaj b. 'Ilal!"-they
        had not learned that I had become a Muslim-"He, by God, must
         have news! Tell us what has happened to Muhammad ; for we have
        heard that that cutter [of kinship ties]525 has marched against
         Khaybar, a town of Jews and the most fertile land in the Ilijaz."

           I said, "I have heard about that, and I have news that will make
        you happy." They clung to the sides of my camel, saying, "Out
         with it, Hajjaj!" So I said : "They have been handed a defeat like no
        defeat you have ever heard of. His companions have suffered

           520. $afar, A.E. 7, began on zo June 628.

          5 I.e., of the Bahz subdivision of the Band Sulaym.

          522. I.e., to lie. Al-Ilajjij may be intentionally avoiding the bluntness of the

        ordinary word for lying.
          523. The bracketed words are from the parallel in W, II, 702.
           524. According to Yagdt (Mu'jam al-bulddn, II, 335), al-Bay4d ' is another name

        for Tan'im, just outside the sacred territory (haram) encircling Mecca.
          525. Arabic: a1-gdli', " the cutter," which can be a shortened way of saying gdlf

        al-rahim, "cutter, i.e., breaker of ties of kinship," or qd;i' a1-Iariq, "cutter of the
        road, i.e., highwayman." Either meaning would fit the context.

[[p 152]]
The Events of the Year 7 127

slaughter like no slaughter you have ever heard of. Muhammad
himself has been taken prisoner, but they have said, 'We will not
kill him, but will send him to Mecca, so that they can kill him in
their midst for those of their men whom he killed."'

   So the men went and proclaimed it in Mecca, saying: "Here is
news for you! Muhammad is on the way. All you have to do is wait
for him to be brought to you to be put to death in your midst."

   I said, "Help me collect my property in Mecca from my debtors;
for I want to go to Khaybar and get something from Muhammad's
defeated army and companions before the merchants beat me to
what there is." So they went and collected my property as quickly
as I have ever heard of its being done. I went to my wife and said:
"My property!"-for I had property of mine left with her. "Per-
haps I can reach Khaybar and take advantage of the opportunities
to buy before the merchants beat me to it."

   When al-'Abbas b. 'Abd al-Mullalib526 heard the news-it was
reported to him on my authority-he came and stood beside me
while I was in one of the merchants' tents and said, "Hajjaj, what
is this news you have brought?" I said, "Can you keep to yourself
what I entrust to you?" "Yes," he replied. I said, "Leave me, and I
will meet you in private; for I am in the midst of collecting my
property, as you see." So he went away from me. When I had
collected everything belonging to me in Mecca and was ready to
leave, I met al-`Abbas and said, "Keep what I say to yourself for
three nights, Abu al-Fadl,527 for I fear pursuit; then say whatever
you want." "I will," he said. I said: "By God, I left your nephew [15881
married to their king's daughter, Safiyyah bt. Huyayy b. Akhtab.
He has conquered Khaybar and plundered what it contains. It has
become his and his companions'." "What are you saying, Hajjaj?"
he said . I said: "It is so, by God! Keep my secret . I have become a
Muslim and have come only to get my property for fear that it may
be taken from me by force. After three days have passed, make
what you know public; for the matter, by God, is as you would like
it to be."

  526. Al-'Abbas was Mubammad's uncle. According to a1-Tabari, I, 1344, he
became a Muslim sometime before the Battle of Badr but had been forced to fight
on the Meccan side at that battle, professing his Islam openly only after he was
captured. See E12, s.v. al-'Abbas b. 'Abd al-Mullalib.

  5 27. Abu al-FaSll is the kunyah of al .Abbas.

[[p 153]]
128 The Victory of Islam

          On the third day, al-'Abbas put on a suit of clothes, perfumed
        himself, took his stick, left his house, went to the Ka'bah, and
        circumambulated it. When people saw him, they said, "Abu al-
        Fadl, this, by God, is composure in the face of a searing misfor-
        tune!" "No," he replied, "by Him by whom you swore, Muham-
        mad has conquered Khaybar and has been made the husband of the
        daughter of their king. He has taken its wealth and what was in it;
        they have become his and his companions'." "Who brought you
        this news?" they asked. He said: "The one who brought you what
        he brought you. He came among you as a Muslim, took his prop-
        erty, and left to join the Messenger of God and his companions and
        be with him." They said: "Help, servants of God! The enemy of
        God has escaped! By God, had we known, we should have had a
        bone to pick with him." Soon the news of it reached them.

[15891              The Division of the Spoils of Khaybar

        According to Ibn I-Iumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
        'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr, who said: The property of Khaybar-[the
        fortresses of ] al-Shiqq, Nalah, and al-Katibah-was divided as fol-
        lows. Al-Shiqq and Nalah were among the shares of the Muslims.
        Al-Katibah was the fifth of God, the fifth of the Prophet, the share
        of kinsmen, orphans, the needy, and the wayfarer, food for the
        wives of the Prophet, and food for the men who had mediated the
        peace between the Messenger of God and the people of Fadak528
        (they included Muhayyigah b. Masud, whom the Messenger of
        God gave from it thirty camel loads of barley and thirty camel
        loads of dates). Khaybar was divided among the people who had
        been at al-Iludaybiyah, both those who were present at Khaybar

          528. It is unlikely that the ands in the original connect equal units , implying (as
        Guillaume translates the parallel in Ibn Hishim) that the spoils of al-Katibah were
        divided into five equal parts-one-fifth for God, one-fifth for the Prophet, one-fifth
        for relatives, orphans, the needy, and wayfarers, one-fifth for the Prophet's wives,
        and one-fifth for the mediators between him and Fadak. Qur'anic usage normally
        treats the one-fifth (khums) of God and the one-fifth of the Prophet as synonymous
        (e.g., Qur'an 8:4 r: "a fifth is for God and for the Messenger and for the kinsman and
        orphans and the needy and the wayfarer", similarly Qur' an 59 :7). The most likely
        meaning is that al-Katibah as a whole was treated as constituting the fifth of the
        booty reserved for Muhammad to divide for special uses ("the fifth of God"). This

        interpretation is followed by Vaglieri, in E12, s.v. Khaybar, summarizes the varying
        traditions about the division of the spoils of Khaybar.

[[p 154]]
The Events of the Year 7 129

and those who were absent. Only Jabir b. 'Abdallah b. Haram al-                       [rsgo]
AngAri was absent, and the Messenger of God allotted him a share
like that of those who were present.

   After the Messenger of God had finished with Khaybar, God cast
fear into the hearts of the people of Fadak when they received
news of what God had brought upon the people of Khaybar; so
they sent to the Messenger of God to make peace with him for a
half share of Fadak. Their messengers came to him in Khaybar (or
on the way,529 or perhaps after he had arrived in Medina), and he
accepted their terms. Fadak became the property of the Messenger
of God exclusively, because no horses or camels had been spurred
against it Sao

   According to Ibn Ilumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr, who said: The Messenger of God used to
send 'Abdallah b. Rawahah to the people of Khaybar to estimate
the quantity of the date harvest [to be divided] between the Mus-
lims and the Jews. He would make his estimate for them; and if
they said, "You have wronged us," he would say, "If you wish,
it531 is yours; and if you wish, it is ours." So the Jews used to say,
"By this man heaven and earth stand firm!"532 'Abdallah b.
Rawahah acted as their assessor for only [one year];533 then he was
killed at Mu'tah. Jabbar b. $akhr b. Khans' of the Banu Salimah
became their assessor after 'Abdallah b. Rawahah. The Jews con-
tinued on these terms, and the Muslims found no fault with their
sharecropping until, in the lifetime of the Messenger of God, they
attacked 'Abdallah b. Sahl of the Banu I3arithah and killed him.
The Messenger of God and the Muslims became suspicious of
them because of him.

  According to Ibn Ilumayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq, who said: I
asked Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri how the Messenger of God's grant to

   529. For "on the way" )bi-al-tariq), IH reads "in al-Ta'if" )bi-al-Td if).

   530. The language is similar to Qur'an 59:7.
   531. Apparently, "this heap ." I.e., he divided the harvest into two heaps and
gave the Jews the choice of which they wanted.
   532. The pronoun hddhd (" this") refers, as is usual, to a person ('Abdallah b.
Rawahah ): Guillaume's finding of a direct echo of Pirge Abhoth 1: r9 (he translates
as if hadha meant "this foundation") is unlikely, although some echo of the Jewish
topos of "things on which heaven and earth rest " is possible.

   533. The bracketed words, which are syntactically necessary, are from the paral-

lel in IH, III, 354.

[[p 155]]
1 30 The Victory of Islam

[1591]  the Jews of Khaybar of their date palms, when he granted them the
        palm trees with the proviso of a tax on them , had taken place: did
        he concede them these terms as established [only] until his death,
        or for some necessity did he grant them to them without such a.
        proviso? Ibn Shihab informed me that the Messenger of God con-
        quered Khaybar by force after fighting. Khaybar was something
        that God gave as booty to His Messenger. The Messenger of God
        took one-fifth of it and divided [the remainder ] among the Mus-
        lims. Those of the inhabitants who surrendered did so on condi-
        tion that they should be expelled after having fought. The Mes-
        senger of God summoned them and said, "If you wish, we will

        deliver these properties to you on condition that you shall work
        them and that their produce shall be divided between us and you) I
        will allow you to remain as long as God allows you to remain."
        They accepted, and they worked the properties on those terms.
        The Messenger of God used to send 'Abdallah b. Rawalliah) he
        would divide the produce and assess it fairly for the inhabitants.
        After the death of the Prophet, Abu Bakr after the Prophet con-
        firmed the properties in their hands on the same terms of share-
        cropping on which the Messenger of God had dealt with them.
        When Abu Bakr died, 'Umar confirmed the sharecropping arrange-
        ment in the beginning of his term as commander) then, however,
        'Umar was informed that the Messenger of God had said during
        his final illness , "Two religions cannot coexist in the Arabian
        peninsula."534 'Umar investigated the matter until trustworthy
        evidence reached him)535 then he sent to the Jews, saying: "God
        has given permission for you to be expelled) for I have received
        word that the Messenger of God said that two religions cannot
        coexist in the Arabian peninsula. Let anyone who has a treaty
        from the Messenger of God bring it to me, and I will carry it out for

        him. Let any Jew who has no treaty from the Messenger of God
        make ready to leave." Thus 'Umar expelled any of them who had
        no treaty from the Messenger of God.

           According to Abu Ja'far [al-Tabari]: Then the Messenger of God
        returned to Medina.

           534. Cf. the proverb (al•Maydani, II, 268 ): Id yaitami'u fal Tani fi shawl, "Two
        stallions cannot live side by side in a herd."

          535. Or, " until a trustworthy transmitter informed him."

[[p 156]]
The Events of the Year 7 131

                            Various Notices                                            [1592]

According to al-Wagidi: In this year the Messenger of God re-
turned his daughter Zaynab to Abu al-`A§ b. al-Rabi'. This took
place in Mulharram 536

   In this year HAtib b. Abi Balta'ah came back from al-Muqawqis
bringing Mariyah and her sister Shin, his female mule Duldul, his
donkey Ya'fur, and sets of garments. With the two women al-
Muqawqis had sent a eunuch, and the latter stayed with them.
Hatib had invited them to become Muslims before he arrived with
them, and Mariyah and her sister did so. The Messenger of God
lodged them with Umm Sulaym bt. Milhan. Mariyah was beauti-
ful. The Prophet sent her sister Sirin to Hassan b. Thabit, and she
bore him 'Abd al-Ral3man b. Hassan.

   In this year the Prophet had the pulpit537 made on which he
used to preach to the people: he had it made with two steps and his
seat. Others say that it was made in the year 8, which we538 think
is the reliable report.

   In this year the Messenger of God sent 'Umar b. al-Khallab with
thirty men against the "rear" of Hawazin539 at Turabah.540 He set
out with a guide from the Band Hilal. They traveled by night and
hid by day. However, word reached Hawazin and they fled. 'Umar
returned without having encountered any fighting.

  In this year a raiding party led by Abu Bakr b. Quliafah went to
Najd in Sha'ban.541

  According to Salamah b. al-Akwa': We raided with Abu Bakr in
that year. According to Abu Ja' far [al-Tabari]: An account of this
has been given earlier.542

  536. Muharram of A.H . 7 began on 11 May 628. Cf . pp. 93 -94 and note 400,
above. Apparently, Abu al- A$ became a Muslim after his release, so that Zaynab
could become his wife again.

  537. See E12, s.v. Minbar, for a discussion by J. Pedersen of the derivation of the
term and the various traditions about how the pulpit was introduced.

  538. I.e., al-Wagidi and his authorities.
  539. The rear J'ajuz or'ujz) of the north Arabian tribe of Hawazin consisted of
the tribe's smaller divisions: Jusham, Na$r, and Sa'd b. Bakr; see Watt, Muhammad
at Medina, 99; Lisan, IV, 2819; and E12, s.v. Hawizin. Parallel: W, II, 722.
   540. Turabah was south of Mecca; see Yaqut, Mu'jam al-buldan, II, 374.
   541. Sha'ban of A.H. 7 began on 4 December 628.

   542. Seep. 97, above.

[[p 157]]
132 The Victory of Islam

(15931    According to al-Wagidi: In this year a thirty-man raiding party
        led by Bashir b. Sa'd543 went to the Banu Murrah at Fadak in
        Sha'ban.s44 His companions were killed ,545 and he was carried
        away wounded with the dead. Then he returned to Medina.

          According to Abu Ja'far (al-Tabari ]: In this year a raiding party
        led by Ghalib b. 'Abdallah went to al-Mayfa'ah in the month of

        Ramadan.546
          According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Isl}aq-

        'Abdallah b. AN Bakr, who said:547 The Messenger of God sent
        Ghalib b. 'Abdallah al-Kalb? to the land of the Banu Murrah. Dur-
        ing the raid, Usamah b. Zayd and one of the An§ar killed Mirdas b.
        Nahik, an ally [of the Band Murrah] from the al-H. uragah [clan of
        the tribe] of Juhaynah.

          According to UsAmah : When we overcame him, he said "I tes-
        tify that there is no god but God ," but we killed him before we left.
        When we came to the Messenger of God , we told him the story,
        and he said, "Usamah, who will [say] to you 'There is no god but
        God'? "548

           According to al-Wagidi :549 In this year the raiding party led by
        Ghalib b. 'Abdallah went to the Banu 'Abd b. Tha'labah. Accord-

          543. On this Medinese companion of the Prophet (a member of al-Khazraj), see

        E12, s.v. Bashir b. Sa'd.

           544. Parallel : W, II, 723-26.
          545. Or "wounded": Arabic u;iba , "were hit," is ambiguous. The parallel in al-
        Wagidi implies many, but not all, were killed.
           546. Ramadan of A.H. 7 began on 2 January 629 . Al-Mayfa'ah is in Najd. Ibn Said
        (Tabagat, II, 86 ) locates it beyond Baln Nakhl (which Yaqut, Mu'/am al-buldan, II,
        221, places "close" to Medina), toward al-Naqirah (which Yaqut, VIII, 308, locates
        where the road from Iraq divides into two branches, one to Medina and one to

        Mecca, the modem toponym Nugra in central Saudi Arabia may be the same

        place), eight post stages from Medina.
           547. Parallel: IH, IV, 622-23 (without isnad).
           548. I think this is the simplest interpretation of man laka bi-la ilaha ills Allah.

        Cf. Wright, Arabic Grammar, II, 163C; Reckendorf, Arabische Syntax, 240.
        Guillaume (p. 667) translates "who will absolve you from ignoring the confession
        of faith? "-which I think is too complicated. The idiom normally means "who
        will bring/get/procure something for someone?" Mubammad's rebuke to Usgmah

        would therefore mean that if he kills prisoners who recite the Muslim creed, no

        one will ever bring him (i.e., say to him ) these words and thus accept Islam in his

        presence.
           549. Parallel : W, II, 626-27.

[[p 158]]
The Events of the Year 7 133

 ing to al-Wagidi-'Abdallah b. Ja'far-Ibn Abi 'Awn550-Ya'qub
 b. 'Utbah, who said: Yasar, the mawla of the Messenger of God,
 said, "Messenger of God, I know where the Banu 'Abd b. Tha'labah
 can be taken by surprise." He sent with him Ghalib b. 'Abdallah
 with 130 men. They raided the Banu 'Abd, drove off camels and
 sheep, and brought them back to Medina.

   In this year a raiding party led by Bashir b. Sa'd went to Yumn
 and Jinab in Shawwal of the year 7.551 According to [al-Wagidi[-
 Yaliya b. 'Abd al-'Aziz b. Sa'id552-Sa'd b. Ubadah-Bashir b.
 Mubammad b. 'Abdallah b. Zayd, who said:553 What prompted
 this raiding party was that Husayl b. Nuwayrah al-Ashja'i, who
had been the guide of the Messenger of God to Khaybar, came
before the Prophet. The Prophet asked him, "What news do you
bring?" He said, "I left a large gathering of Ghalafan at al-Jinab:
'Uyaynah b. Hisn has summoned them to march against you." So
the Prophet summoned Bashir b. Sa'd, and the guide, Husayl b.
Nuwayrah, went with him. They captured camels and sheep. A
slave belonging to 'Uyaynah b. Hign met them, and they killed
him. Then they encountered 'Uyaynah's army, which was put to
flight. Al-Harith b. 'Awf554 met 'Uyaynah as he was fleeing and
said, "The time has come, 'Uyaynah, for you to give up what
yousss plan."

                The Lesser Pilgrimage of Fulfillment

According to Ibn Humayd- Salamah-Ibn Ishaq, who said:556
When the Messenger of God returned to Medina from Khaybar, he

   55o. 'Abd al-Wabid b. Abi 'Awn al -Dawsi was born in Medina and died in
144/761-62. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 438.

   551. Yumn (Yaqut, Mu'jam al-buldan, VIII, 524) was a watering place of
Gharafan between Barn Qaww and Ru'af, on the road between Tayma ' and Fayd; al-
Jinab was near Khaybar (ibid., III, r30-31).

   552. A Yabya b. 'Abd al-'Aziz Abu 'Abd al-'Aziz al-Urdunni (or al-Yamaml) of
Syrian origin-possibly they are two different men-is listed without dates in Ibn
Ilajar, Tahdhib, XI, 251.

   553. Parallel: W, II, 727-31.
   5 54. Al-Harith b . 'Awf al-Mum, the leader of the Banu Murrah , seems to have
been an ally of 'Uyaynah; cf. the parallel in W, II, 729; also Watt, Muhammad at
Medina, 94.
   555. Variant, "we."
   556. Parallel: IH, W, 370 (tr. Guillaume, 530).

[[p 159]]
134 The Victory of Islam

[1594]  stayed there the months of Rabi ' I, Rabi' II, Jumada I, Jumada II,
        Rajab, Sha'ban, Ramadan, and Shawwa1,557 sending out expedi-
        tions and raiding parties during the period. Then in Dhu al-
        Qa'dah,558 the month in which the polytheists had turned him
        back [in the previous year], he set out to perform the "Lesser
        Pilgrimage of Fulfillment " in place of the lesser pilgrimage from
        which they had turned him back 559 The Muslims who had been
        with him on that lesser pilgrimage of his set out with him. It was
        the year 7. When the people of Mecca heard of it, they made way
        for him. The Quraysh spoke among themselves of how Mu-
        hammad and his companions were in difficulty, distress, and
        want.

           According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-al-IIasan b.
        'Umarah560-al-I;iakam b. 'Utaybah561-Migsam562-Ibn 'Ab-
        bas, who said: They stood in rows at the House of Assembly (Dar
        a1-Nadwah)563 to look at the Messenger of God and his compa-
        nions with him. When the Messenger of God entered the mosque,
        he put his cloak under his right arm and threw the bottom of it over
        his left shoulder,564 leaving his right arm uncovered. Then he said,
        "May God have mercy on a man who today has shown them his

          557. I.e., from 9 July 728 (the beginning of Rabi' I) to i March 729 (the end of
        Shawwal).

           558. Dhu al-Qa'dah of A.H. 7 began on 2 March 629.
           5 59. See pp. 67 ff., above. The phrase 'umrat al-gadd ' implies that it was seen as
        making up for the interrupted pilgrimage of the previous year . See E12, s.v. ga51a'. It

        was sometimes called 'umrat al-qadiyyah (the Lesser Pilgrimage of the Pact-so
        on p. 138, below ) to imply that there was no obligatory making up , merely the

        fulfilling of a bargain struck at al-Hudaybiyah the previous year. See Burton, An

        Introduction to the Hadith, 14.
          56o. Al-Ilasan b. 'Umirah died in 153 /752. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, II, 304-8.
          561. Abu Muhammad al-Hakam b . 'Utaybah al-Kindi lived from around 47-

        50/667 -70 to about 113-15 /731-33 . See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, II, 432-341 GAS, I,
        65-66, 403.

          562. Abu al -Qasim Miqsam b. Bujrah (mawld of 'AbdallAh b. al-Hirith b.
        Nawfal) died in 101/719. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 288-891 GAS, I, 65.

          563. The House of Assembly (Dar al-Nadwah), to the north of the Ka 'bah, was
        where the Meccan leaders gathered to deliberate and transact common business.

        See E12, s.v. Dar al-Nadwa.
          564. The procedure is expressed by the Arabic phrase i4taba 'a bi-rida 'ihi. As

        Lane (Lexicon, V, 1766) notes, it frees the right arm and shoulder for work. One
        might see it as a symbolic gesture proclaiming the worshiper 's readiness to serve

        the deity.

[[p 160]]
The Events of the Year 7 135

own strength." He touched the stone at the corner565 and set out at                     (1 5951
a quick walk,566 his companions going at the same pace with him.
Then, when the House-567 had hidden him from the people and he
had touched the southern corner, he walked until he touched the
Black (Stone); then he went at a quick walk in similar fashion for
three circuits. He walked the remainder of the circuits.568 Ibn

'Abbas used to say: "People used to think that it569 was not incum-

bent upon them-that the Messenger of God had done it only
because of those people of Quraysh, on account of what had been
reported to him about them.570 However, when he performed his
Farewell Pilgrimage,571 he trotted (those circuitsJ,572 and it be-
came sunnah573 to do so."

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Abdallah b.
AbI Bakr: When the Messenger of God entered Mecca on that
lesser pilgrimage, he entered it while 'Abdallah b. Rawahah was
holding his camel's nose-ring and reciting:574

Make way, ye sons of unbelievers, for him:
     I am a witness that he is His Messenger.

Make way: for all good is in His Messenger.
     0 Lord, I believe in what he says.

I know that God's truth is in accepting it.

   565. The Black Stone at the comer of the Ka'bah . "He touched (istalama) it,"
may also mean "he kissed it, or wiped it with his hand ." The verb implies a ritual
gesture, and the dictionaries are uncertain of its derivation; cf. Lane, Lexicon, N,
1413.

   566. Arabic: yuharwil, going at the pace called harwalah, between a walk and a
run.

   567. I. e., the Ka'bah.
   568. I.e., the four circuits remaining of the total of seven. See EI' , s.v. 'Umra.
   569. I.e., the quick walk.

   570. I.e., to impress Qursysh that he was not exhausted, as they had rumored.
   571. In A.H. zo (February-March 632 ); cf. al-Tabarl, 1, 1751 if.
   572. Arabic: ramala, usually taken to be synonymous with harwala and to refer
to the same gait between a walk and a run) see Lane, Lexicon, III, 1159.
   573. Sunnah (from sanna, to institute) originally meant "a way of acting or
conduct ... instituted by former people, and ... pursued by those after them"-
Lane, Lexicon, IV, 1438. The Islamic community applied the word to the norma-

tive actions and sayings of Muhammad handed down within the community. See

also, Bravmann, The Spiritual Background of Early Islam, 123-98.
  574. Further discussion of the poem, its variants, and attributions of it to other

poets may be found in the Diwan of 'Abdallah b. Rawahah, 101-2.

[[p 161]]
136 The Victory of Islam

                We have killed you in accordance with575 its interpretation,
          As we have killed you in accordance with its revelation,

                with striking that removes the head from its resting place
                and makes friend forget his friend.

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Isliaq-
           Aban b. $alih576 and 'Abdallah b. Abi Najih-'Ala' b. Abi
           Rabah577 and Mujahid-Ibn 'Abbas: The Messenger of God mar-
          ried Maymunah bt. al-Harith on this journey while he was in a
          state of ritual purity; al-'Abbas b. 'Abd al-Mullalib married her to
          him.578

             According to Ibn Ishaq: The Messenger of God stayed in Mecca
           three nights. On the third day, Huwaylib b. 'Abd al-'Uzza b. Abi
           Qays b. 'Abd Wudd b. Nagr b. Malik b. Hisl came to him with a
[1596] group of Quraysh: Quraysh had deputed Huwaylib to make the
           Messenger of God leave Mecca. They said to him, "Your allotted
           time is up; so depart from us! " The Messenger of God said to
           them: "How would it harm you if you left me and I celebrated the
          wedding feast among you? We would prepare food for you , and you
           would attend it." They said, "We do not need your food) so depart
           from us!" The Messenger of God departed, leaving behind Abu

                575. Arabic: 'ala ta'wilihi, can also be rendered "over its interpretation," and
             the next hemistich "over its revelation ." My translation preserves the possibility
             that the verses could have been addressed to the pagan Meccans on this occasion.
             IH, IV, 371-72, however, accepts the translation "over." After quoting the verse
             (omitting the hemistich "I am a witness ..."), Ibn Hisham pronounces only the
             first two verses genuine: the last two verses, he argues, must have been pro-
             nounced on another occasion because "the polytheists had not accepted the revela.
             tion, and one fights over interpretation only with those who have already accepted
             the revelation."

                  576. Aban b . $alih b. 'Umayr b . 'Ubayd al-Qurashi, a mawld, was born in
               60/679- 80 and lived until ca. 110/728-29 . See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, 1, 94-95.

                  577. Abu Muhammad 'Ata' b. Abi Rabat} Aslam at-Qurashi was born in 27/647
               and died in 114/732 . He was a Qur'an commentator and expert on law . See Ibn
               I3ajar, Tahdhib, VII, 199-203; GAS, 1, 31.

                578. Maymunah, at this time a widow , was the sister of Umm al-Fa41, the wife
             of al-'Abbas, Muhammad', uncle. The authenticity of this tradition , which implies
             that it is permissible to contract (but not consummate ) a marriage while one is in
             the state of ritual purity (il rdm ) necessary for performance of the pilgrimage
             ('umrah or iajj), was a subject of controversy among early Islamic schools of law.
             The various opinions are summarized by Schacht The Origins of Muhammadan
             Jurisprudence, 153. See also E12, s .v. Maymuna b]nt al-Harith, Burton, An Intro-
             duction to the Hadith, 78-81.

[[p 162]]
The Events of the Year 7 1137

Rafi' his mawla to take charge of Maymunah. Abu Rafi' brought
her to him at Sarif,579 and the Messenger of God consummated his
marriage with her there. The Messenger of God commanded that
they should find a substitute for the sacrificial camels-he him-
self also found a substitute with them . Camels being scarce for
them, he permitted them [to sacrifice] cattle. The Messenger of
God returned to Medina in Dhu al-Hijjah and stayed there the
remainder of Dhu al-Hijjah (the polytheists were in charge of the
pilgrimage that year), Mul}arram, $afar, and both months of
Rabi'580 In Jumada I he sent out his expedition to Syria, which
came to grief at Mu'tah.

   According to al-Wagidi-Ibn AN Dhi'b581--al-Zuhri, who said:
The Messenger of God commanded them that they should per-
form the lesser pilgrimage in the following year in fulfillment of
for, to make up for] the lesser pilgrimage of al-Hudaybiyah and
that they should bring sacrificial animals.

   According to [al-Wagidi]-'Abdallah b. Nafi'582-his father
[Nafi']583-Ibn 'Umar,584 who said: This lesser pilgrimage was not
a fulfillment for a making up]; rather, it had been stipulated that
the Muslims should perform the lesser pilgrimage in the following
year in the month in which the polytheists turned them back.

   According to al-Wagidi: The statement of Ibn Abi Dhi'b is pref-
erable to us because they had been prevented [the previous year]
and had not reached the Ka'bah.

   According to al-Wagidi-'Ubaydallah b. 'Abd al-Rahman b.

   S79. Sarif is close to Mecca. Yiqut (Mu'jam al-buldan, V, 7o0 gives the distance
as six, seven, nine, or twelve miles.

   58o. I.e., he remained in Medina roughly from i April 629 to 5 September (the
end of Rabi' II).

   581. Ibn Abi Dhi'b is Mubammad b . 'Abd al-Rabman b. al-Mughlrah, a judge of
al-Kufah, who died in 159/776. See Ibn IIajar, Tahdhib, IX, 303-7; GAS, I, 204.

   582. 'Abdallih b. Nafi' al-Adawi was a mawla born in Medina. He transmitted
hadith from his father, Nafi', the mawla of Ibn'Umar, and died in 154/771. See Ibn
Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 53-54.

   583. Nafi', the mawla of'Abdallah b.'Umar, died in 119 or 120/737-38. See Ibn
Ifajar, Tahdhib, X, 412-15.

  584. 'Abdallih b.'Umarb. al-Khaltib ( a son of the caliph'Umar) died in 73/692.
See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 228-29, 812, s.v. 'Abdallih b. 'Umar.

[[p 163]]
138 The Victory of Islam

[1597]  Mawhab585-Muhammad b. Ibrahim, who said: The Messenger of
        God drove sixty fatted camels on the Lesser Pilgrimage of the Pact

        ('umrat al-gadiyyah).
          According to [al-Wagidi]-Mu'adh b. Muhammad al-

        Ansari586-'Asim b. 'Umar b. Qatadah, who said: He carried arms,
        helmets, and spears and led a hundred horses . He appointed Bashir
        b. Sa'd to be in charge of the weapons , and Muhammad b. Mas-
        lamah to be in charge of the horses . When Quraysh received word
        of this, it frightened them. They sent Mikraz b. Hafs b. al-Akhyaf,
        who met him at Marr al -7-ahran.587 [The Messenger of God] said to
        him: "Young or old, I have never been known but for keeping a
        promise. I do not want to bring in weapons against them, but the
        weapons will be close to me." Mikraz returned to Quraysh and
        informed them.

          According to al-Wagidi: In this year the raid of Ibn Abi al-'Awja'
        al-Sulami on the Banu Sulaym took place in Dhti al-Qa'dah.588
        The Messenger of God sent him against them with fifty men after
        he returned from Mecca, and he set out against them.

          According to Abu Ja'far [al-Tabari]: According to what I have
        received from Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Abdallah b.
        Abi Bakr:589 The Banu Sulaym met him during it, and he and his

        companions all were killed.
          According to Abu Ja'far [al-Tabari]: However, al-Wagidi alleges

        that he escaped and returned to Medina, but his companions were
        killed.590

          58S. 'Ubaydallah b. 'Abd al- Rabman b. Mawhab is listed without dates in Ibn

        I;iajar, Tahdhib, VII, a9.
          586. For Mu'adh b. Muhammad al-An$ari, see In Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 193-94.
          587. Marr al-Zahran, according to Yaqut, Mu'jam al-bulddn, VIII, a1, is either

        one stage or five miles from Mecca.
          5 88. Thus the manuscripts, but it is an error for "Dhi3 al-I;iijjah," which is given

        in al-Wagidi, In Sa'd, Nuwayri, and others, and which the sequence demands) cf.
        al-Tabari, I, 1596. [Ed. Leiden notel.

           589. The tradition does not appear in the surviving recensions of the Sfrah.

           590. Parallel : W, II, 741.

[[p 164]]
16

                           The
                  Events of the Year

                      8

                        MAY I, 629-APRIL 19, 630)

                            9

In this year (as alleged by al-Wagidi-Yal}ya b. 'Abdallah b. Abi
Qatadah591-`Abdallah b. Abi Bakr) Zaynab, the daughter of the
Messenger of God, died.

        The Expedition against the Banu al-Mulawwih

In $afar of this year the Messenger of God sent Ghalib b. `Abdallah
al-Laythi on a raid to al-Kadid against the Banu al -Mulawwih.592 [iS98J

   According to Abu Ja' far [al-Tabarij : The report of this raiding
party and of GhAlib b. 'Abdallah was transmitted to me by Ibrahim

   591. Yahya b. 'Abdallah b. Abi QatAdah, the grandson of the companion Abu
Qatadah, seems to be mentioned in Ibn 11ajar, Tahdhib, V, 36o as having transmit-
ted liadith from his father'Abdallah. The name of'Abdallah's second son, Yahya,
appears to have dropped out of the text of Ibn 11ajar by haplography.

   592. $afar of A.H. 8 began on 31 May 629. The Band al-Mulawwil} (also vocalized
as al-Mulawwah) were a part of the Banu Layth in turn a part of Bakr b. 'Abd
Manat) with territory west of Medina. Al-Kadid is in the Hijiz, twenty-four miles
from Mecca (Yaqut, Mu'jam al-bulddn, VII, 224). Parallels: W, 75o-521 IH, IV, 609-
12 (tr. Guillaume, 660-62).

[[p 165]]
1 40 The Victory of Islam

[1599]  b. Said al-Jawhari593 and Said b. Yal}ya b. Sa'1d.594 (Ibrahim said

        he had received his report from Yahya b. Said;595 Said b. Yahya
        said he had received his report from his father [Yahya b. Sa'id].) We
        also received this report from Ibn Humayd-Salamah. All [these

        reports] are from Ibn Ishaq-Ya'qub b. 'Utbah b. al-Mughirah-
        Muslim b. 'Abdallah b. Khubayb al-Juhani596-Jundab b. Makith
        al-Juhani,597 who said: The Messenger of God sent out Ghalib b.
        'Abdallah al-Kalb! (of the Kalb [subdivision] of Layth) against the

        Banu al-Mulawwih in al-Kadid and commanded him to raid them.
        Ghalib set out; I was in his raiding party. We traveled on until,
        when we were at Qudayd,598 we encountered al-Harith b. Malik,
        known as Ibn al-Barga' al-Laythi. We took him, but he said, "I
        came only to become a Muslim." Ghalib b. 'Abdallah said, "If you
        have indeed come as a Muslim, it will not harm you to be bound
        for a day and night; if you have come for another purpose , we shall
        [thereby] be safe from you." So he secured him with a rope and left
        a little black man who was with us in charge of him , saying: "Stay
        with him until we pass by you. If he gives you trouble, cut off his

        head."
          We continued on until we came to the bottomland of al-Kadid

        and halted toward evening, after the midafternoon prayer. My
        companions sent me out as a scout. I went to a hill that gave me a
        view of the settlement and lay face down on the ground. It was just
        before sunset. One of their men came out , looked, and saw me
        lying on the hill. He said to his wife : "By God, I see a shape on this
        hill that I did not see at the beginning of the day. See whether the
        dogs may not have dragged away one of your utensils." She looked
        and said, "By God, I am not missing anything." He said, "Hand me

          593. Ibrahim b. Said al-Jawhari was originally from Tabaristan and died ca.
        250/864. See al-Khalib, Ta'rikh Baghdad, VI, 93-96; In Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 123-25.

          594. Said b. Yahya b. Said al-Umawi died in 249/863. See In Hajar, Tahdhlb,

        IV, 97-98.
          595. Abu Ayyub Yahya b. Said b. Abin b. Said b. al-'Al al-Umawi al-Kufi was

        born ca. 114/732. He later moved to Baghdad, where he died in 194/809 . See Ibn
        Ijajar, Tahdhib, XI, 213 -14; GAS, 1, 293.

          596. Muslim b. 'Abdallah b. Khubayb al-Juhani is mentioned without dates in
        Ibn IIajar, Tahdhib, X, 133•

          5 97. Jundab b. Makith b. Jarad b. Yarbu' al-Juhani was a companion of the Proph-
        et. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, II, 118.

          598. YAq^ut ( Mu'jam al-bulddn, VII, 38) locates Qudayd near Mecca. Al-
        Samhudi, Khula fat a1-wafa', 595, calls it "a large village with abundant water on
        the road to Mecca."

[[p 166]]
The Events of the Year 8 141

my bow and two of my arrows." She handed them to him, and he
shot me with an arrow and hit my side. I pulled it out, put it down,
and did not move. Then he shot me with the other and hit the top
of my shoulder. I pulled it out, put it down, and did not move. He
said: "By God, both my arrows penetrated it. If it were a living
thing,599 it would have moved. Go after my arrows in the morning
and get them, so that the dogs do not chew them up for me."

   We gave them time until their herds had come back from pas-
ture in the evening. After they had milked the camels, set them to
rest by the watering trough, and had stopped moving around, after
the first part of the night had passed, we launched the raid on
them. We killed some of them, drove away the camels, and set out
to return. Meanwhile, the party carrying the people's appeal for
aid set out to the tribe to get help.

   We traveled quickly. When we passed by al-I3arith b. Malik (Ibn
al-Baru') and his companion, we took him with us. The party
summoned to aid the people came at us. They were too powerful
for us. However, when only the bottom of Qudayd Canyon was
between us and them, God sent clouds from out of the blue, al-
though we had seen neither rain nor clouds before that, and the
result was [a torrent ] that no one could risk [crossing]. We saw
them looking at us, none of them able to risk it or advance, while
we quickly drove off the camels. We took them up to al-
Mushallal60o and then brought them down from it, and we eluded
the tribesmen with what we had taken. I shall never forget the [16oo]
rajaz verses that one of the Muslims recited as he was driving the
camels from behind:

Abu al-Qasim601 refuses to let you remain out all night
     in [pasture] whose plants are moist and luxuriant,
     their tops golden like the color of something gilded.

   Sgg. Reading zd'ilah, as suggested by ed. Leiden "Addenda et emendanda," ad
loc. The original Leiden reading (echoed by ed. Cairo ) was rabfah, "a scout."

   6oo. Al-Mushallal is a mountain overlooking Qudaydj see Yaqut, Mu'jam al-
bulddn, VIII, 67 . Al-Samhudi, Khulafat al-wafd ', 607, calls it a mountain pass (or
trail) overlooking Qudayd and refers to the shrine to the goddess Manit located
there. See p. r88, below, for the report of its destruction . Cf. E12, VI, 373-74, s.v.
Manat, and T. Pahd, Le pantheon de 1'Arabie centrals , 123. Fahd locates al-
Mushallal seven Arab miles ( ca. fifteen kilometers ) from Medina, but Yiiqut and al-
Samhudi give no distance.

   6or. Abu al-Qisim ("Father of al-Qasim") was the kunyah of Muhammad,
taken from the name of his first male child, see al-Tabari, I, 1 r28.

[[p 167]]
1 42 The Victory of Islam

             According to Ibn I Iumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Isliaq-a
          man from Aslam-a shaykh of Aslam: The battle cry of the com-
          panions of the Messenger of God that night was "Kill! Kill!"

             According to al-Wagidi: The raiding party led by Ghalib b.
          'Abdallah consisted of between thirteen and nineteen men.

                                       Other Notices

          In this year the Messenger of God sent al-'Ala' b. al-Iiadrami to al-
          Mundhir b. Sawa al= Abd1602 and wrote to him a letter containing
          the following:

                    In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
                 From Muhammad the Prophet, Messenger of God, to al-
                 Mundhir b. Sawa: Peace be upon you! I praise to you God,
                 save Whom there is no god.

                    To proceed: I have received your letter and your mes-
                 sengers. Whoever prays our prayer , eats of our sacrifice,
                 and turns to our qiblah is a Muslim: permitted to him is
                 what is permitted to Muslims, and incumbent on him is
                 what is incumbent on Muslims . Incumbent on whoever
                 refuses is [the payment of ] tax.603

           The Messenger of God made peace with them on condition that
            the Zoroastrians should be required [to pay] tax, that their sacri-
            fices should not be eaten, and that one should not marry their
            women.

               In this year the Messenger of God sent 'Amr b. al-'A0 to Jayfar
[r6or] and'Abbad, the sons of Julanda, in'Uman. The two believed in the

            Prophet and affirmed what he had brought . He exacted the poor
            rate604 on their wealth and collected tax (jizyah) from the
            Zoroastrians.

                  602. See note 430, above.
                603. Arabic: jizyah, " the tax that is taken from the free non-Muslim subjects of
             a Muslim government, whereby they ratify the compact that ensures them protec-
             tion" (Lane, Lexicon, II, 422 ). Cf. 812, s.v. Dlizya.
                  604. Arabic: gaddaga, he collected . adagah, "a gift to the poor for the sake of
               God." Later usage distinguished gadagah from zakdh, the obligatory payment by
               Muslims of a fixed portion or their wealth for the poor, but here faddaga clearly
               refers to the collection of an obigatory payment; such instances are not uncommon
               in early usage. See Lane, Lexicon, IV, x668; Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 369-72.

[[p 168]]
The Events of the Year 8 143

   In this year a twenty-four-man raiding party led by Shuja' b.
Wahb went to the Banu 'Amir in the month of Rabi' 1.605 He
launched a raid on them and took camels and sheep. The shares [of
booty] came to fifteen camels for each man.

   In this year a raiding party led by 'Amr b. Ka'b606 al-Ghifari
went to Dhat Allah. He set out with fifteen men, and when he
reached DhAt Allah he encountered a large force of men whom
they summoned to Islam. They refused to respond and killed all of
'Amr's companions. He607 managed to get away and returned to
Medina.

   According to al-Wagidi: Dhat Allah is in the direction of Syria.
Its people belonged to [the tribe of [ Qucla'ah 608 Their head was a
man named Sadus.

    'Amr b. al-'Aq and Khalid b. al-Wald Go to Medina
                               as Muslims

In this year 'Amr b. al-'A^ came to the Messenger of God as a
Muslim, having accepted Islam at the court of the Negus. With
him came 'Uthman b. Talbah al-'Abdari and Khalid b. al-Walid b.
al-Mughirah. They came to Medina at the beginning of $afar.609

   According to Abu Ja'far [al-Tabari]: The circumstances of 'Amr
b. al-'Ag's becoming a Muslim were as follows (according to Ibn
Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Isliaq-Yazid b. Abi Habib-Rashid,

   605. Rabi' I of A.H. 8 began on 29 June 629.
   606. The name is given thus in the manuscripts of al-Tabari and in the later
historian Ibn al-Athir. The correct reading , Ka'b b. 'Umayr, is preserved in In Sa'd,
and in W, II, 752, and IH, IV, 627 (tr. Guillaume, 667). See ed. Leiden, note ad loc.
  607. Al-Tabari implies that 'Amr was the man who escaped. Al-Wagidi has:
"The companions of the Prophet ... fought very hard, until they were killed, one
of them, who was wounded among the dead, escaped and managed to get away after
nightfall"-similarly in Ibn Sa'd.
   6o8. Quda'ah was a group of Arab tribes of obscure origin. Of its main divisions,
Juhaynah controlled the coastal caravan route between Syria and Mecca , while Bali
was located farther to the north, from Wadi Itlam and Tayma'. Other divisions
included 'Udhrah and Kalb. See E12, s.v. Ku4a'a; Watt, Muhammad at Medina,
110-11.
   609. $afar of A.H. 8 began on 31 May 629.

[[p 169]]
Z44 The Victory of Islam

          the mawld of Ibn Abi Aws610-Habib b. Abi Aws,611 who said
[16o2.] that 'Amr b. al-'Aq himself had spoken in his hearing, saying) 612

          When we returned with the allies from the [Battle of the] Trench, I
          gathered some men of Quraysh who thought as I did and would
          heed my words. I said to them: "You know, by God, that I think
           Muhammad's enterprise will prevail in an extraordinary manner. I
          have formed an idea: What do you think of it?" "What is your
           idea?" they asked. I said: "I think we should join the Negus and
           stay at his court. If Muhammad defeats our people, we shall stay
           with the Negus, for it will be preferable for us to be under the
           power of the Negus than under the power of Muhammad. If our
           people are victorious, we are people whom they know, and only
           good will come to us from them." They said, "This is good counsel
           indeed." So I said, "Gather up things that we can present to him as
           gifts." The gift he liked most from our land was tanned hides; so
           we gathered up many tanned hides for him. Then we set out, and
           we came to him. While we were at his court, by God, `Amr b.
           Umayyah al-Damn came to him, sent to him by the Messenger of
           God in the matter of Ja'far b. Abi Talib and his companions. `Amr
           went before him and then came out of his presence . I said to my
           companions: "This is 'Amr b. Umayyah al-pamri. Perhaps I
           should go before the Negus and ask him for him. Perhaps he will
           give him to me and I can cut off his head. If I do it, Quraysh will
           think I have rendered them a service by killing Muhammad's
           messenger."

             So I went before the Negus and prostrated myself to him as I
           used to do. "Welcome to my friend!" he said. "Have you brought
           me something from your country as a gift ?" "Yes, King," I said, "I
           have brought you many tanned skins ." I presented them to him;
           they pleased him, and he desired them. Then I said to him: "0
[1603] King, I have seen a man who left your presence. He is the mes-
           senger of a man who is our enemy. Give him to me, so that I may
           kill him, for he has killed some of our dignitaries and best men."
           The Negus became angry and, reaching out with his hand, struck

                bro. Rashid, the mawla of Habib b. Aws (or b. Abi Aws), was Egyptian. He is
             listed without dates in Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, 111, 2z5.

                  Err. Habib b. Abi Aws (or b. Aws) al-Thaqafi participated in the conquest of
               Egypt. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, II, 177.

                  6,2. Parallels : W, II, 741-50) IH, III, 276 -79 (tr. Guillaume, 484-85).

[[p 170]]
The Events of the Year 8 145

his nose such a blow with it that I thought he had broken it. Had
the earth split open for me, I would have entered into it for fear of
him! I said, "By God, 0 King, had I thought the matter would
displease you, I would not have asked it of you." He said, "Will
you ask me to hand over to you the messenger of a man to whom
comes the Great Ndmus,613 who used to come to Moses, for you
to kill him?" I said, "0 King, is he indeed such?" He said: "Alas for
you, 'Amr! Obey me, and follow him! By God, he is right and will
be victorious over whoever opposes him, even as Moses was vic-
torious over Pharaoh and his hosts." I said, "Will you accept my
oath of allegiance to him for Islam?" "Yes," he said. He extended
his hand, and I swore allegiance to him for Islam . Then I went out
to my companions, my outlook having changed, but I concealed
my acceptance of Islam from my companions.

   Then I set out, intending to go to the Messenger of God to accept
Islam. I met Khalid b. al-Walid-it was before the conquest [of
Mecca]. He was coming from Mecca. I asked him, "Where to, Abu
Sulayman?" "By God," he replied, "the trail has become straight!
The man is indeed a prophet. By God, I am going to become a
Muslim. How much longer [can one delay]?" I said, "By God, I
[too] have come only to become a Muslim!" So we came to the
Messenger of God. Khalid b. al-Walid went first, became a Mus-
lim, and swore allegiance . Then I approached and said, "Mes-
senger of God, I will pledge allegiance to you on condition that you
forgive me my earlier sin; I will not mention what came later."614
The Messenger of God said, "'Amr, swear allegiance; for accep-
tance of Islam entirely cuts off what went before it, and emigra- [1604]
tion,615 too, entirely cuts off what went before it." So I swore
allegiance to him and departed.

  613. Arabic names, is derived (through Syriac ndmusj from Greek nbmos, "law"
Ji.e., the Pentateuch or Law of Moses ; but Arabic uses it in this phrase as a title of
the Angel Gabriel, and it is so glossed in al-Tabari, I, 1 15.1 . See Ere, s.v. Names.

  614. This interpretation is grammatically more likely than Guillaume's, "on
condition that my past faults are forgiven and no mention is made of what has gone
before." In the parallel in W, III, 745, 'Amr describes himself as having been so
awed by the occasion that he forgot to mention all his sins : "As soon as I sat before
him I was unable to raise my eyes to him from embarrassment . I swore allegiance
to him on condition that my earlier sin should be forgiven me; the later one(s) did
not enter my mind."

  615. Arabic: hifrah.

[[p 171]]
146 The Victory of Islam

             According to Ibn llumayd- Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
          someone I do not doubt: 'Uthman b. Talbah b. Abi Talbah was
          with the two of them and accepted Islam when they did.

                     Other Events of the Year 8 of the Hijrah

          Among the events of this year, the Messenger of God sent 'Amr b.
          al-'M in Jumada II to al-Salasil in the territory of [the tribe of ]
          Quda'ah with 300 men.616 The circumstances were as follows.
          According to reports, the mother of al-'A§ b. Wa'i1617 was a woman
          from Quda'ah. It has been reported that the Messenger of God
          wanted to win them over by that, and he therefore sent 'Amr b.
          al-'& along with men of eminence among the Emigrants and
          Angar. 'Amr asked the Messenger of God for reinforcements, and
          the latter reinforced him with Abu 'Ubaydah b. al-Jarrah in charge
          of the Emigrants and Angar, including Abu Bakr and 'Umar, with
          Zoo men. The total number of men was Soo.

                          The Expedition of Dhat al-Salasil

          According to Ibn I;Iumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
           'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr, who said: The Messenger of God sent 'Amr
          b. al-'Aq to the territory of Bali and 'Udhrah to seek their as-
          sistance [for an expedition] to Syria. The circumstances were as
          follows. The mother of al-'A§ b. Will was a woman from [the tribe
           of ] Bali. The Messenger of God therefore sent 'Amr b. al-'Ag to
[ 16os J them to try to gain their good will. When'Amr was in the territory
          of [the tribe of I Judham at a watering place called al-Salasil (the
           expedition therefore came to be called Dhat al-Salasil618)-when
           he was at the place, he became afraid and sent to the Messenger of
           God, asking him for reinforcements. The Messenger of God sent
           to him Abu 'Ubaydah b. al-Jarrah with the first Emigrants, includ-
           ing Abu Bakr and 'Umar. When he sent out Abu 'Ubaydah, he said
           to him, "Let the two of you not disagree!" Abu 'Ubaydah set out.

                  616. Jumgdi II of A.x. 8 began on 26 September 629. Parallels: W, III, 769-74k IH,
               IV, 623-26 (tr. Guillaume, 668-69).

              617. Al-'A4 b. Wii'il was the father of 'Amr b. al-'Aq.

                  W. I.e., [the Expedition] Pertaining to al-Salasil. According to Ibn Sa'd (Taba-
               qdt, II, 94) the site was ten-days' journey north of Medina.

[[p 172]]
The Events of the Year 8 147

When he reached 'Amr b. al-'A§, the latter said to him, "You have
come only to reinforce me." Abu'Ubaydah said to him: "'Amr, the
Messenger of God said to me, 'Let the two of you not disagree.'
Even if you disobey me, I will obey you." 'Amr said, "Then I am
your commander, and you are merely a reinforcement to me."
Abu 'Ubaydah replied, "Have your way." So 'Amr b. al-'A§ led the
men in worship.619

              The Expedition Known as al-KhabaJ

According to al-Wagidi: In this year the expedition known as al-
Khabat took place620 Its commander was Abu 'Ubaydah b. al-
Jarrab. The Messenger of God dispatched him in Rajab621 of this
year with 300 Emigrants and An§ar toward [the tribe of J Juhaynah.
During the expedition they suffered such severe dearth and
distress that they divided up the dates by number.

   According to Abmad b. 'Abd al-Raliman622-his uncle, 'Abdal-
lah b. Wahb623-'Amr b. al-Harith624-'Amr b. Dinar625-Jabir b.
'Abdallah, who said: We set'out with an expedition. We were 300
men, with Abu Ubaydah b. al-Jarrah as our commander. Hunger
beset us, so that for three months we ate leaves that we beat down
from the trees. Then a sea creature came forth, called an am- I i 6o6J
bergris whale, and we continued eating it for half a month. One of
the An§ar slaughtered some camels; then he slaughtered again the
next day. Abu 'Ubaydah forbade him, and he stopped. ('Amr b.

   619. Leading worship was a sign of authority.
   620. Parallel : W, 11, 774 -77, IH, IV, 632-33 (tr. Guillaume, 673). The raid took its
name not from a place, but from the shortage of provisions . Khabal means "leaves
that have been made to fall from a tree by its being beaten with a staff or stick, used
as food for camels " (Lane, Lexicon, II, 698).
   621. Rajab of A.H. 8 began on 25 October 629.
   622. Ahmad b. 'Abd al-Rahman b. Wahb died in 264/877. See Ibn Hajar, Tah-
dhib, I, 54-55.
  623. 'Abdallah b. Wahb b . Muslim al-Fihri was born in Egypt in 125/743 and died
therein 197/812. He was a pupil of the jurist Malik b. Anas. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdbib,
VI, 71-74; GAS, 1, 466.
   624. 'Amr b. al-I3arith b. Ya'qub b. 'Abdallah al -Angirl, a mawla of Qays Abu
Umayyah al -Mi$ri, was of Medinese origin . He was born ca. 90/708-9 and died ca.
148/765 -66. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 14-15.
   625. 'Amr b. Dinar al-Makki Abu Muhammad al-Athram al -Jumal}I was born in
46/666-67 and died in 126/743-44. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 28-30, GAS, I,
594 and Index.

[[p 173]]
148 The Victory of Islam

          Dinar said that he heard Dhakwan Abu $alili say that the man was
          Qays b. Sa'd.)

             'Amr [b. al-I;iarith] said that he received a similar report from
          Bakr b. Sawadah al-Judhami626-Abu Jamrah627-Jabir b. 'Abdal-

          lah, except that [in it] he said: They became exhausted. Qays b.
          Sa'd was their commander, and he slaughtered nine riding camels
          for them.

             He also said: They had been sent on an expedition to the sea-
          coast, and the sea cast up a creature to them. They stayed near it
          for three days, eating of it, making jerky, and scooping out its fat.
          When they returned to the Messenger of God, they told him what
          Qays b. Sa'd had done, and the Messenger of God said that gener-
          osity was the nature of that family. Concerning the whale he said,
           "If we knew that we could reach it before it began to smell, we
          should like to have some of it." [The narrator of this version] did
          not mention the leaves beaten down from the trees or anything

          except that.
             According to Ibn al-Muthanna-al-Qabbak b. Makhlad628-Ibn

          Jurayj629-Abu al-Zubayr-Jabir b. 'Abdallah, who said: The
          Prophet provisioned us with bags of dates. Abu 'Ubaydah doled
          them out to us handful by handful, then date by date. We would
          suck on them and drink water with them until night. Finally,
          when the contents of the bags were exhausted, we collected leaves
          beaten down from the trees. We became very hungry. Then the sea
           cast up a dead whale for us. Abu 'Ubaydah said, "Hungry ones,
           eat! "-and we ate. Abu 'Ubaydah would set up one of its ribs, and
[1607] a rider on his camel could pass under it. Five men could sit in its
           eye socket. We ate and oiled ourselves until our bodies became
           healthy, and we came away fat. When we returned to Medina (so
           said Jabir), we mentioned this to the Prophet, and he said: "Eat a
           sustenance that God brought out for you. Do you have any of it

                  626. Bakr b. Sawadah b. Thumimah al-Judhami died in North Africa during the
               caliphate of Hisham (reigned 105 /724 to 125/743). See In Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 483-
               84.

                627. Abu Jamrah al-I?uba'i died ca. 128/74. See lbn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 431-32.
                628. Al-palibak b. Makhlad, called Abu 'Agim al-Nabil, lived from 122/740 to
             between 212 and 214/827-29. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IV, 450-53; Ei? Suppl., I, $.v.
             Abd 'A$im al-Nabil.
                  629. Ibn Jurayj, 'Abd al-Malik b. 'Abd at 'Aziz, was born in 80/699 and died in
               150 or 151 /767-68. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 402-6; GAS, I, 91.

[[p 174]]
The Events of the Year 8                      149

with you?" We had some of it with us . He sent one of the people to
get it, and he ate some of it.

  According to al-Wagidi: It was called the expedition of al-
Khaba# because they ate leaves beaten down from the trees
(khabat ) until the linings of their mouths were like those of
camels that have pastured on thorn trees.

Expeditions Involving Ibn Abi Hadrad and Abu
                         Qatadah

In Sha'ban of this year630 the Messenger of God sent out a party of                (r6o8J
men under the command of Abu Qatadah.

   According to Ibn l;iumayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-Yahya b.
Said al-Angari631-Muhammad b. Ibrahim -'Abdallah b. Abi
I;iadrad al-Aslami, who said:632 I married a woman from my tribe,
promising her a nuptial gift (,sadaq) of Zoo dirhams . Then I came to
the Messenger of God to seek his assistance with my marriage. He
said, "How much did you set as the nuptial gift? " I said, "Two
hundred dirhams, Messenger of God." " Praise God!" said he, "if
you could take dirhams from a creek bed , you could not have gone
higher! By God, I have nothing with which to help you."

  I waited a few days . Then a man named Rifa 'ah b. Qays or Qays
b. Rifa'ah from the Banu Jusham b . Mu'awiyah arrived with a large
group from Jusham.6w He encamped at al-Ghabah634 with his
tribesmen and companions , intending to gather [the tribe of ] Qays
to make war on the Messenger of God. He was a man of name and
standing in [the tribe of J Jusham. The Messenger of God sum-
moned me and two other Muslims and said, "Go out to this man
and either bring him to us or bring us a report and information
about him." He presented us with an emaciated old camel and
mounted one of us on it. By God, it was so weak that it could not
stand up with him until the men propped it up from behind with

   630. Sha'ban of A .H. 8 began on 24 November 629.

   631. Yahya b. Said b . Qays al-An$ari Abu Said, who died in 143/760, was a
Medinan judge who later served under al-Man $dr in al-Hashimiyyah in Iraq. See
Ibn IIajar, Tahdhib, XI, 221-24; GAS, I, 407.

   632. Parallels: W, II, 777 -8o) IH, IV, 629-31 (tr. Guillaume, 671-72).
   633. The Band Jusham were a division of the large tribe of Hawizin . See Watt,
Muhammad at Medina, 99.
   634. See note 73, above.

[[p 175]]
150 The Victory of Islam

          their hands, and then it raised itself, though barely. Then he said,
          "Make do with her, and take turns riding."

             We set out, armed with arrows and swords. We approached the
          encampment at evening as the sun was setting. I hid myself in one
          place and commanded my two companions to hide themselves
          somewhere else near the men's encampment . I told them, "If you
          hear me shout 'God is greatest !' and attack the encampment,
          shout 'God is greatest!' and attack with me."

             By God, we kept watching for some heedlessness on their part or
          some way to strike them until night fell over us and the time of
          the darkness of the night prayer passed . One of their herdsman
          who had gone out in the area in the morning was late coming
          back, so that they became worried about him. Their leader,
          Rifa'ah b. Qays, stood up, took his sword, put [its belt] on his neck,
          and said: "By God, I am going to follow the tracks of this herdsman
          of ours. Some evil must have befallen him." Some of his compan-
          ions said: "By God, do not go. We will take care of it for you." He
          said, "By God, no one but I shall go." They said, "And we with
          you!" "By God," he said, "none of you shall follow me !" He set
          out and passed by me. When he came within range, I shot him
          with an arrow and put it into his heart. By God , he spoke not a
          word. I leaped at him and cut off his head. Then I rushed toward
           the encampment and shouted "God is great !" My two compan-
           ions rushed and shouted "God is great!" In no time at all, those
           who were in the encampment were shouting "Save yourself!" and
           "Quick, quick! " and taking all they could-wives, children, and
           any property light enough to carry . We drove away a great herd of
[16o9] camels and many sheep and goats and brought them to the Mes-
          senger of God. I brought him Rifa'ah's head, which I carried with
          me. The Messenger of God gave me thirteen camels from that
          herd as aid, and I consummated my marriage.

             As for al-Wagidi, his account is as follows. According to al-
           Wagidi-Muhammad b. Yahya b. Sahl b. Abi Hathmah-his fa-
           ther [Yahya b. Sahl b. Abi Hathmah635]: The Prophet sent Ibn Abi
           Hadrad in this party with Abu Qatadah. The party consisted of .

                635. YabYa would be the son of Sahl b. Abi I;iathmah, a companion of the
             Prophet, who died during the early part of Mu`awiyah 's reign (from 41/661 to
             6o/68o). See In Hajar, Tahdhib, IV, 248-49.

[[p 176]]
The Events of the Year 8 151

sixteen men, and they were away fifteen nights. Their shares [of
booty] were twelve camels [for each man], each camel being ac-
counted equal to ten sheep or goats. When the people fled in
various directions, they took four women, including one young
woman who was very beautiful. She fell to Abu Qatadah. Then
Mahmiyah b. al-Jaz' spoke of her to the Messenger of God, and the
Messenger of God asked Abu Qatadah about her. Abu Qatadah
said, "I purchased her from the spoils." The Messenger of God
said, "Give her to me." So he gave her to him, and the Messenger
of God gave her to Mahmiyah b. Jaz' al-Zubaydi.

   In this year the Messenger of God sent Abu Qatadah with a
company of men to raid the lowland of Idam.636

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-Yazid b.
'Abdallah b. Qusayl-Abu al-Qa'ga' b. 'Abdallah b. Abi Hadrad al-
Aslami (some authorities give the chain of transmission as In al-
Qa'ga'-his father-'Abdallah b. Abi I;iadrad),637 who said: The
Messenger of God sent us to Idam. I set out with a group of Mus-
lims, including Abu Qatadah al-Harith b. Rib'! and Muhallim b.
Jaththamah b. Qays al-Laythi. We set out and came to the lowland
of Idam. This was before the conquest [of Mecca]. 'Amir b. al- [161o]
Adbal al-Ashja'i passed us by on a young camel of his. He had a bit
of food with him and a skin of sour milk. As he passed us, he
greeted us with the greeting of Islamj638 so we held back from
him. But Muhallim b. Jaththamah attacked him because of some
quarrel between them, killed him, and took his camel and food.
When we returned to the Messenger of God and told him the story,
the [following passage of ] Qur'an was revealed concerning us: "0
believers, when you are journeying in the path of God, be
discriminating"-and the rest of the verse 639

   636. Parallels: W, II, 796-97; IH, IV, 397 and 626-29 qtr. Guillaume, 544, 669-
71). Yaqut, Mu'jam al-bulddn, I, 281, lists a number of places with the name, both
in the Hijaz and Central Arabia. Idam is probably to be located at the present Wadi
al-Ijamd, which enters the Red Sea 5o kilometers south of al-Wajh in northwestern
Arabia. See E12, s.v. I;Iamd, Wadi al-.

   637. In the present recension of Ibn Hishem 's Sirah, the isnad reads: Yazid b.
'Abdallah b. Qusayl-al-Qa'ga' b. 'Abdallah b. Abi Hadrad-his father 'Abdallah.

   638. I.e., al-saldmu 'alaykum, "Peace be upon you!"
  639. Qur'an 4:94, which continues: "and do not say to him who offers you a
greeting, 'You are not a believer,' seeking the chance goods of the present life."

[[p 177]]
152 The Victory of Islam

            According to al-Wagidi: The Messenger of God sent out this
         party only when he set out for the conquest of Mecca in the month
          of Ramadan.640 They numbered eight men.

                            The Expedition to Mu 'tah641

         According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq, who said: After
          the Messenger of God returned to Medina from Khaybar, he stayed
          in Medina for the two months of Rabi'; then, in Jumada 1,642 he
          sent out his expedition to Syria whose members met with disaster
         at Mu'tah.

            According to Ibn I3umayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Isl iq-
          Muliammad b. Ja'far b. al-Zubayr-'Urwah b. al-Zubayr, who said:
         The Messenger of God sent his expedition to Mu' tah in Jumada I
         of the year S. He put Zayd b. Harithah in command of the men and
          said, "If Zayd b. Harithah is killed, Ja'far b. Abi T alib shall be in
          command of the men; if Ja'far is killed, 'Abdallah b. Rawa^ah shall
         be in command." The men equipped themselves and made ready
          to set out. They numbered 3,000. When the time for their depar-
          ture came, the people said goodbye to the commanders of the
          Messenger of God, wishing them safety and bidding them
          farewell. When 'Abdallah b. Rawabah said goodbye with the other
1611 ] commanders of the Messenger of God who were doing so, he wept.
          They said to him, "What is making you weep, Ibn Rawabah?" He
          said, "By God, I have no love of this world or excessive love for
          you, but I heard the Messenger of God recite a verse from the Book
          of God that mentioned the Fire [of Hell]-'Not one of you there is,
          but he shall go down to it; that for thy Lord is a thing decreed,
          determined'643-and I do not know how I can come out after going
          down." The Muslims said, "May God accompany you, defend

               640. Ramadan of A.H. 8 began on 23 December 629.
                 641. Parallels: W, II, 755-69) IH, IV, 373-89 (tr. Guillaume, 531-4o) . Mu'tah is a
              village in the area known as al-Balga ' (Yaqut, Mu'jam al-bulddn, VIII, 190. The
             modern town of Mu'tah, Jordan, about 1o km south of Karak and 20 km east of the
              southern end of the Dead Sea, is on the site. See ER, s.v. Mu 'ta, for a bibliography of
             the Arabic and Byzantine sources.
               642. I.e., he remained in Medina from about 29 June to 26 August, dispatching
            the expedition to Mu'tah in the month that began on 27 August 629.
                 643. Qur'an 19:71.

[[p 178]]
The Events of the Year 8 153

you, and bring you back to us in good health." Then 'Abdallah b.
Rawahah recited:644

But I ask the Merciful One for pardon,
      and for a sword blow that makes a wide wound that shoots
      out foaming [blood];

Or a deadly thrust by a thirsty one,
      by a lance that pierces right through the guts and the liver;

So that people shall say, when they pass my grave:
      "God guided you aright, 0 warrior who followed the right
      way."

Then the men made ready to depart. 'Abdallah b. Rawahah went
to the Messenger of God and said goodbye to him. The men set
out, and the Messenger of God went out to see them off; having
bidden them farewell, he returned from them. 'Abdallah b.
Rawahah recited:645

May [He who is] Peace supply the place [of the departing ones]
     to a man to whom I bade farewell
     among the palm trees -the best escort and friend!

   They journeyed on and encamped at Mu'an646 in the land of
Syria. The men learned that Heraclius had encamped with
ioo,ooo Byzantines at Ma'ab647 in the territory of al-Balga'. Joined
to him were Arab auxiliaries from [the tribes of ] Lakhm, Judham,
Balqayn, Bahra ', and Bali, numbering roo,ooo and commanded by
a man from [the tribe of I Bali and of the subdivision Irashah,
named Malik b. Rafilah.648 When the Muslims received word of

  644. Other sources, variants, and commentary on the poem may be found in the
Diwdn of 'Abdallih b. Rawabah, 88.

  645. For variants and commentary see Diwdn ofAbdallah b. Rawahah, ioo. The
line is a prayer that God (here paradoxically addressed by his name al-Salam , Peace)
may supply the place of the departing men. The opening formula is a variant on a
common formula of consolation for the loss of a relative-khalafa Alldhu 'alayka
("may God supply the place [of the one you have lost]"). See Lane, Lexicon, 11, 792.

  646. The name is also given as Main, which is the form used for the city in
modem Jordan that perpetuates the name.

   647. This is the ancient town of Rabbath Moab, now al-Rabbah, a dozen kilome-
ters north of Karak in Jordan. See Le Strange , Palestine under the Moslems, 494-
95, 5o9- roe Yiqut, Mu'jam al -bulddn, VII, a49-5o; 812, VII, s.v. Mu'ta.

  648. Ibn Hishem: Zafilah.

[[p 179]]
154 The Victory of Islam

f1612]  this, they stayed at Mu'an two nights, considering what to do.
        They said: "We will write to the Messenger of God and inform
        him of the number of our enemy. Either he will reinforce us with
        men or he will give us his command that we should return to
        him." 'Abdallah b. Rawahah encouraged the men, saying: "Men,
        by God, what you loathe is the very thing you came out to seek-
         martyrdom. We do not fight the enemy by number, strength, or
         multitude; we fight them only by this religion with which God
         has honored us. Go forward, for it is one of two good things: vic-
         tory or martyrdom." The men said, "By God, Ibn Rawahah has
         spoken the truth." So the men went forward. Concerning how
         they held back, 'Abdallah b. Rawahah recited the following

         verses:649

        We urged our horses on from the fortresses of Qurh,,650
             their packs crammed with grass.

        Because of the flintstone we shod them with hide
             as slippery as if its surface were leather.651

        They stayed two nights at Mu'an,
             and energy replaced their fatigue.

        Then we went forth with steeds given free rein,652
             the simoom breathing in their nostrils.

        No, by my father! Ma'ab-we will come to it
             though Arabs and Romans be in it.

        We set their reins in order, and they came
             grim-faced, the dust being a second color for them,653

          649. The poem, with significant variants, occurs in IH, IV, 375-76 (tr.
        Guillaume, 533) and in later texts. See Diwdn of 'Abdallah b. RawAhah, Ios-4.

          650. Qurb was a market town in Wadi al-Qura, the valley stretching north of
        Medina toward Syria. The verse is quoted in Yaqut's article on Qurh (Mu'fam al-
        buldan, VII, 48-49). Ibn Hishim's text reads: "We urged on our horses from Aja'
        and Far'll-two mountains in the territory of the tribe of Tayyi'.

          651. The line was obscure to the commentators. On journeys over stony ground
        the Arabs normally "shod" their camels and horses with protective "boots" of

        leather.
          652. Arabic musawwam has a variety of meanings: pastured, sent forth, or

        marked (with brands or distinguishing colors).
           653. The commentator suggests that the color of dust mixed with the color of

        their coats, forming a pattern that looked like barim, a two-colored rope used by

        women as an ornament. Perhaps the meaning is less specific and refers to patches

        of dust covering the coats of the horses and making them appear dappled . See Lane,

        Lexicon, I, 195.

[[p 180]]
The Events of the Year 8 155

 Bearing a clamorous [army]: as if the helmets in it, [1613)
      when their tops became apparent , were the stars.

 A life of ease and contentment
      our spears have divorced, to marry or remain unmarried.

 Then the people proceeded on their way.
    According to In Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Abdallah b.

 Abi Bakr-Zayd b. Arqam, who said: I was an orphan under the
 care and protection of 'Abdallah b. Rawahah. He set out on that
 journey of his, mounting me behind him on the back of his camel
 saddle. By -God, as he traveled by night, I heard him recite these
 verses of his:654

 When you have delivered me and carried my saddle
      a four-day's journey after al-I iisa',655

 May yours be an easy life, and may blame pass away from
       you-
      and may I not return to my family behind me.

May the Muslims come and leave me
      in the land of Syria, where I desire to remain.

May you be led back by men who, having close relationship
      to the Merciful One, are cut off from kindred.

There I shall care neither for the spathes of rain-watered palms
      nor for palm trees whose roots are irrigated.

When I heard him recite the verses, I wept. He tapped me with the
whip and said: "What's wrong, little fellow? God is going to re-
ward me with martyrdom, and you are going back between the
two horns of the camel saddle!" Then 'Abdallah said in one of his
poems in rajaz meter:656

0 Zayd, Zayd of the swift, lean camels,657 [x614)
      the night has become protracted; so dismount-may you be
     guided!

   654. For other sources of the poem, variants, and commentary, see Diwan of
'Abdallah b. Rawabah, 79-80. The verses are addressed to his riding camel.

   655. A]-liisa', meaning "a flow of water that disappears under the sand but can
be reached by digging," is modem Wadi al-Hasa at the southern end of the Dead
Sea, cf. Yagtit, Mu'jam al-bulddn, III, 274-75, quoting this verse.

  656. Text and discussion in Diwan of 'Abdallah b. Rawahah, 99-ro0.
  657. The editor of the Diwan explains this as a compliment -Le., Zayd who
knows how to take care of such camels.

[[p 181]]
156 The Victory of Islam

             The men journeyed on. When they were within the boundaries
          of al-Balga ',658 they were met by Heraclius' armies of Romans and
          Arabs at a village of al-Balga' called Masharif. When the enemy
          drew near, the Muslims withdrew to a village called Mu'tah, and
          the two sides encountered each other there. The Muslims
          disposed their forces: in command of their right wing they set a
          man from the Banu 'Udhrah named Qulbah b. Qatadahj in com-
          mand of their left wing they set a man from the Anger named
          'Abayah659 b. Malik. The two sides met and fought. Zayd b.
          I Iarithah fought with the banner of the Messenger of God until he
          perished among the enemy 's javelins. Ja'far b. Abi Talib took up
          the banner and fought with it. When the fighting forced him into
          difficulties from which he could not extricate himself, he leaped
          from his sorrel mare, hamstrung it, and fought the enemy until he
          was killed. Ja'far was the first Muslim to hamstring his horse in
          the time of Islam.660

             According to Ibn Uumayd-Salamah and Abu Tumaylah661-
           Mu4ammad b. Ishaq-Yahya b. 'Abbad-his father ['Abbad b.
          'Abdallah b. al-ZubayrJ-his foster-father, who was from the Banu
          Murrah b. 'Awf and went on the expedition to Mu'tah and who
          said: By God, it is as if I could still see Ja'far when he leaped from
          his sorrel mare, hamstrung her, and fought the enemy until he was
          killed. When Ja'far was killed, 'Abdallah b. Rawahah took up the
          banner and advanced with it on horseback. He kept urging his soul
           to obey. He hesitated a bit, and then he said:662

          I swear, soul, that you shall become obedient
                willingly, or you shall be compelled.

[ 16151 If men raise a clamor and utter cries,
                why do I see you averse to Paradise?

           Too long have you been at ease!

                658. Al-Balga' is the old Arabic name for most of modem Jordan , roughly the
             plateau between Wadi al -Zarga ' (or Jabbok) in the north to Wadi al-MUjib for Ar.
             non) in the south . In Byzantine times , the Amon formed the boundary between the
             province of Arabia and Palestine Tertia. See E12, s.v. al-Bal$a'.

                  659. Ibn Hisham notes that the name is also given as 'Ubadah.
                  660. See note 93, above.
                661. For Abu Tumaylah Yahya b. Wa4ih see Ibn l;Ia)ar, Tahdhib, XI, 293-94.
                662. For other sources of the poem, variants, and commentary, see Diwan of
             'Abdallah b. Rawahah, io8-9.

[[p 182]]
The Events of the Year 8 157

      Are you anything but a drop of moisture in an old water
      skin?

He also said:663

My soul, unless you are killed, you will die:
      this is the destiny of death by which you have been tried.

You have been granted what you wished:
      If you act as those two did, you will have been guided
      aright.664

Then he dismounted. When he had dismounted, a cousin of his
brought him a joint of meat, saying, "Strengthen yourself with it,
for you have endured much in these days." Having taken it from
the cousin's hand, he took a bite of it. Then he heard the rushing of
the troops. "And you are [still] in this world!" he said-and he
threw the meat away. Then he took up his sword, advanced, and
fought until he was killed. Thabit b. Aqram, of the Band
al-'Ajlan,665 then took up the banner. He said, "0 Muslims, agree
on a man from among yourselves!" They said, "You!" He said, "I
cannot do it." So the people agreed on Khalid b. al-Walid. When he 11616]
took the banner, he fended off the enemy and tried to deflect
them 666 Then he withdrew and there was a withdrawal [by the
enemy] from him, so that he got away with his forces.

   According to al-Qasim b. Bishr b. Ma'ruf667-Sulayman b.
Harb668-al-Aswad b. Shayban669-Khalid b. Sumayr,670 who

   663. Ibid., 87 (with additional verses).
   664. The reference is to Zayd b. Harithah and Ja'far b. Abi Talib, who died
carrying the Prophet's banner.
   665. The name is also given as Thabit b. Arqam. The Band al-'Ajlan (here abbre-
viated as Bal'ajlan ) were a subdivision of Bali.
  666. The textual witnesses are evenly divided between pasha, "he tried to
divert," and khasha, " he was cautious or wary" of them (and therefore turned
away and withdrew), see ed. Leiden note ad loc.
   667. For al-Qasim b. Bishr lb . Ahmadj b. Ma'ruf see Ibn Iiajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 308.
   668. Sulayman b. Harb b. Bujayl al -Azdi al-Washilii Abu Ayyub was born in
140/757- 58. Of Baran origin, he served as judge in Mecca, then returned to al-
Ba$rah, where he died in 224/839 . See In Hajar, Tahdhib, Iv, 178-80.
   669. Al-Aswad b. Shaybin al-Sadusi al-Bagri Abu Shaybin died in 165/781-82.
See Ibn I;iajar, Tahdhib, I, 339-40.
  670. Khilid b. Sumayr for Shumayr) al-Sadusi al-Bagri is listed without dates in
Ibn I lajar, Tahdhib, III, 97.

[[p 183]]
15 8 The Victory of Islam

           said: 'Abdallah b. Rabah al-An$ari,671 whom the An*ar had in-
           structed [in religious matters), once arrived in our midst. The peo-
           ple came to him, and he said that he had received a report from
           Abu Qatadah, the horseman of the Messenger of God, who said:
           The Messenger of God sent out the Army of Commanders672 and
           said, "Your commander is Zayd b. I;iarithah; if he is killed, it is
           Ja'far b. Abi Talib; and if Ja'far is killed, it is 'Abdallah b.
           Rawahah." Ja'far jumped up and said, " Messenger of God, I will
           not go if you appoint Zayd commander over me." "Go," he re-
          plied, "for you do not know what is best."

             So they set out. After they had been away for some time, the
           Messenger of God ascended the pulpit. He ordered that the call to
           congregational prayer should be given, and the people gathered to
           hear the Messenger of God. He said: "A gate to good fortune! A
          gate to good fortune! A gate to good fortune! I bring you news of
          your campaigning army. They have set out and have met the en-
          emy. Zayd has died a martyr's death"-he prayed for forgiveness
          for him. "Then Ja'far took up the banner and attacked the enemy
          until he died a martyr's death"-he testified that he had attained
          martyrdom and prayed for forgiveness for him. "Then 'Abdallah b.
           Rawahah took up the banner and planted his legs firmly until he
           died a martyr's death"-he prayed for forgiveness for him. "Then
          Khalid b. al-Walid took up the banner: he was not one of the
           commanders, but he showed himself to be a real commander."
          Then the Messenger of God said, "0 God, he is one of Thy swords,
[1617] and Thou wilt aid him." From that day on, Khalid was named "the
           Sword of God." Then the Messenger of God said: "Hasten to rein-
          force your brothers! Let none of you hang back." So they went
          forth to fight both on foot and mounted. It was in a time of ex-
           treme heat.

             According to Ibn I Iumayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Abdallah b.
          Abi Bakr, who said: When the Messenger of God received word of
           the death of Ja'far, he said, "Last night Ja'far, with two wings
          whose forefeathers were stained with blood, passed by among a

                671. 'Abdallah b. Rabah a1-Angarl Abu IChalid, of Medinese origin, moved to al-
             Ba$rah. He died ca. 90/708-9. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib; V, 206-7.

                  672. laysh al-umard ': apparently a title given to the Mu 'tah expedition because
               of the presence of close relatives of Muhammad appointed as commanders.

[[p 184]]
The Events of the Year 8 159

band of angels, all of them headed for Bishah." [Bishah is] a place                     [1618]
in Yemen 673

   Qutbah b. Qatadah al-`Udhri, the commander of the Muslims'
right wing, attacked Malik b. Rafilah, the commander of the Arab
auxiliaries, and killed him.

   A woman soothsayer674 from Hadas, having heard of the ap-
proach of the army of the Messenger of God, said to her people,
who were a clan of Hadas known as the Banu Ghanm:675 "I warn
you of a folk with narrow eyes, who look askance, who lead horses
whose tails have been cut off, and who spill blood copiously."
They heeded her words and separated from the rest of Lakhm.
Afterward, they remained the wealthiest [clan] of the Hadas.
Those who felt the heat of battle that day were the Banu Tha'labah
clan of Hadas, and afterward they remained few in number.

   After Khalid b. al-Walid withdrew with the men, he returned,
bringing them back.

   According to Ibn Humayd--Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
Muhammad b. Ja'far b. al-Zubayr-'Urwah b. al-Zubayr, who said:
When they were about to enter Medina, the Messenger of God and
the Muslims met them. The young boys ran to meet them, and the
Messenger of God came with the men on a mount. "Take up the
boys," he said, "and have them ride. Give me Ja'far 's son." 'Abdal-
lah b. Ja'far was brought, and the Messenger of God took him and
mounted him in front of him.

  The people began to throw dust at the army, saying, " Fleers in
the way of God!" But the Messenger of God said: "They are not
fleers. God willing, they are ones who will turn to fight again."

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr-'Amir b. 'Abdallah b. al-Zubayr676-some

   673. Bishah is located at the junction of the routes from al-'Wa'if and al-Riya4 to
Abhi, Najran, and southwest Arabia . See Elz, s.v. Bisha.

  674. Arabic: kahinah. See El's, s.v. Kahin.
  675. Hadas was a section of the tribe of Lakhm settled in Byzantine Syria. The
woman's words that follow are in rhymed prose (saj'j, which is typically used for
such mantic utterances.
   676. 'Amir b. 'Abdallah b. al-Zubayr b. al-'Awwam al-Asadi Abu al-Harith trans-

mitted hadith from his father and from his maternal uncle Abu Bakr b . 'Abd al-

Ralimin b. Hisham this mother was Ifantamah bt. 'Abd al-Rahman!. He died about

the same time as the caliph Hishim in 125/742 -43. See In Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 74.

[[p 185]]
r6o ' The Victory of Islam

        members of the family of al-Harith b. Hisham677 (namely, his
        maternal uncles)-Umm Salamah, the wife of the Prophet: Umm
        Salamah said to the wife of Salamah b. Hisham b. al-Mughirah,678
        "Why don't I see Salamah attending worship with the Messenger
        of God and with the Muslims?" "By God," she replied, "he cannot
        leave the house! Every time he goes out, people shout, 'Did you
        flee in the way of God?' So he has stayed in his house and does not
        go. out."

          In this year the Messenger of God went on expedition against
        the people of Mecca.

        The Conquest of Mecca679

(1619]   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Isliaq, who said: After
         sending his expedition to Mu'tah, the Messenger of God stayed in
         Medina during Jumada II and Rajab 680 Then the Band Bakr b. 'Abd
         Manat b. Kinanah assaulted [the tribe of ] KhuzA'ah while the lat-

         ter were at a watering place called al-Watir belonging to Khuza'ah
        in Lower Mecca. The cause of the strife between the Band Bakr
         and the Band Khuza'ah was a man from the Band al-Ha4rami
         named Malik b. 'Abbad. This man of the Band al-Hadrami had a
         covenant of protection at that time with al-Aswad b. Razn.681
         Malik set out on a journey as a merchant. When he was in the

         middle of Khuza'ah territory, the Khuza'ah assaulted him, killed
         him, and took his property. The Band Bakr therefore attacked and
         killed a man from Khuza'ah. Just before Islam, the Khuza'ah in
         turn assaulted Salmi, Kulthdm, and Dhu'ayb, the sons of al-
         Aswad b. Razn al-Dill-they were the leading men and dignitaries

          677. Al-IIIarith b. Hisham b. al-Mughirah al-Makhzumi, a member of an impor-
        tant Meccan family, fought on the pagan side at the battles of Badr and U1}ud. He
        was the nephew of the Prophet's wife Umm Salamah bt. al-Mughirah and became a
        Muslim at the time of the conquest of Mecca.

           678. I.e., to her nephew 's wife. Umm Salamah was the daughter of al-Mughlrah.
           679. Parallels: W, II, 780-871; III, 873-75; IH, IV, 389-428 (tr. Guillaume, 54o-

        6r).
           680. I.e., from 26 September (the beginning of Tumid -! II) to 13 November 629

        (the end of Rajab).
          681. I.e., with one of the chiefs of Kinanah, al-Aswad b. Razn al-Dili, the Band

        al-Dil being a part of the Band Bakr b. 'Abd Man!t b. Kinanah.

[[p 186]]
The Events of the Year 8 161

of the Band Bakr-and killed them at 'Arafah, by the border
markers of the sacred territory.682

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-a
man from the Band al-Dil, who said: In pagan times two payments
of blood money would be paid for each of the sons of al-Aswad,
while a single payment of blood money would be paid for us; and
that because of their excellence [compared with us).683

   Matters stood thus between the Band Bakr and Khuza'ah when
Islam intervened to separate them and occupy people 's minds.
When the peace of al-Hudaybiyah was concluded between the
Messenger of God and Quraysh (this information is according to
Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-Muhammad b.
Muslim b. 'Abdallah b. Shihab al-Zuhri-'Urwah b. al-Zubayr-
al-Miswar b. Makhramah, Marwan b. al-Hakam, and other
learned men of ours), among the terms they imposed on the Mes-
senger of God and that he granted to them was that whoever
wanted to enter into a treaty and pact with the Messenger of God 116201
might do so, and whoever wanted to enter into a treaty and pact
with Quraysh might do so. The Band Bakr entered into a pact with
Quraysh, and Khuza'ah entered into a pact with the Messenger of
God.

   The truce having been concluded, the Banu al-Dil of the Band
Bakr took advantage of it against Khuza'ah. To retaliate for the
sons of al-Aswad b. Razn they wanted to kill the persons from
Khuza'ah who had killed their men. Nawfal b. Mu'awiyah al-Dill
set out with the Band al-1311 (at that time he was leader of the Band
al-Dil, though not all the Band Bakr followed him). He made a
night raid on Khuza'ah while the latter were at their watering
place of al-Watir, and they killed a man [of the Khuza'ah). They
tried to drive each other away and fought. Quraysh aided the Band
Bakr with weapons, and some members of Quraysh fought on
their side under cover of darkness until they drove Khuza'ah into
the sacred territory.

  According to al-Wagidi: Among the members of Quraysh who
helped the Band Bakr against Khuza'ah that night, concealing

  681. Mecca is surrounded by a sacred territory (haram) in which killing is pro-
hibited. The murderers killed their victims just outside this territory.

  683. The addition is from In Hishim.

[[p 187]]
162 The Victory of Islam

          their identity, were $afwan b. Umayyah, 'Ikrimah b. Abi Jahl,
          Suhayl b. 'Amr, and others, along with their slaves.

             Resumption of the account of Ibn Isliaq, who said: When they
          reached the sacred territory, the Banu Bakr said: "Nawfal, we have
          entered the sacred territory. Be mindful of your God! Be mindful of
          your God!" To which he replied blasphemously: "Today he has no
           God!684 Banu Bakr, take your revenge! By my life, you steal in the
           sacred territory; will you not take your revenge in it?"

             The night that the Banu Bakr attacked the Khuza 'ah at al-Watir,
           they killed a man of Khuza'ah named Munabbih. Munabbih was a
          man with a weak heart . He had gone out with a tribesman of his
[162r1 named Tamim b. Asad. Munabbih said to him: "Tamim, save
          yourself! As for me, by God, I am a dead man whether they kill me
           or spare me, for my heart has ceased beating ." Tamim ran away
           and escaped) Munabbih they caught and killed. When the
           Khuza'ah entered Mecca, they took refuge in the house of Budayl
          b. Warga' al-Khuza'i and the house of one of their mawlas named
           Rafi'.

             When Quraysh leagued together [with the Banu Bakr]685 against
           Khuza'ah and killed some of their men, breaking the treaty and
           covenant that existed between them and the Messenger of God by
          violating the Khuza'ah, who had a pact and treaty with him, 'Amr
           b. Salim al-Khuza'i, one of the Banu Ka'b,686 went to the Mes-
           senger of God in Medina . This was one of the things that prompted
           the conquest of Mecca . 'Amr stood before the Messenger of God
           while he was in the mosque sitting among the people, and he

           recited:

           0 God, I will remind Muhammad
               of the venerable alliance of our father and his father.

          Parent were we, and you were child)687

                684. I.e., "Today I have no God," referring to himself in the third person, as is
             frequent in oaths; see ed. Leiden, Glossarium, p. cxxi.

                  685. Addition from IH, N, 394•
                686. The Banu Ka'b b. 'Amr were a subdivision of Khuzi ah.
                687. Cf. the variant in IH, N, 394: "You were progeny, and we were parent."
             According to the note In IH, ad loc., this refers to the fact that the mother of the
             Banu 'Abd Manif !which included the Prophet 's clan of the Bann Hilshim and the
             clans of 'Abd Shams, al-Muttalib, and Nawfal) was a woman from Khuzi'ah.
             Qugayy, the father of 'Abd Manaf, likewise had a mother from the Khuzg'ah. For

[[p 188]]
The Events of the Year 8 1163

     then we became Muslims and did not withdraw our hand.                             [1622)
Help, Messenger of God, with ready help!

     Summon God's worshipers to come with assistance!
Among them the Messenger of God has come forth

     bright as the full moon--waxing, ascending.
If he is wronged, his face takes on a dusky hue,

     among an army huge like the sea that runs foaming.
Quraysh have violated the promise to you;

     they have broken the solemn covenant with you.
They have set a watch for me at Kada'688

     and have said that I can call on no one.
Most contemptible are they and fewest in number.

     They attacked us at al-Watir while we were praying at
    night,
Killing many of us while we were bowing and prostrating
     ourselves.

(By this he was saying that they had killed them after they had                        [1623)
become Muslims.) When the Messenger of God heard this, he said,
"You have received help, 'Amr b . Salim!" Then a cloud appeared
to the Messenger of God in the sky, and he said, "This cloud
signals the beginning of help for the Banu Ka'b."

   Then Budayl b . Warqa' set out with a group of men from
Khuza'ah. They came to the Messenger of God in Medina and told
him what had befallen them and how Quraysh had backed the
Banu Bakr against them; then they departed to return to Mecca.
The Messenger of God had told them, "I think you will see Abu
Sufyan come to strengthen the pact and extend the term." As
Budayl b. Warga' and his companions traveled, they met Abu Suf-
yan at 'Usfan: Quraysh had sent him to the Messenger of God to
strengthen the pact and extend the term , for they had become
fearful of what they had done. When Abu Sufyan met Budayl, he
said, "Where have you come from, Budayl ?"-for he guessed that
he had gone to the Messenger of God. Budayl said , "I traveled with
the Khuza'ah along this shore and along the bottom of this val-

walid as referring either to a male or female parent (the latter without the feminine
termination), see Lane, Lexicon, VIII, 2967, s.v.

  688. Kada' is a mountain overlooking Mecca from the north) see Yaqut, Mu'!am
al-buldan, VII, 22o.

[[p 189]]
164 The Victory of Islam

[1624]   ley." Abu Sufyan asked, "Didn't you go to Muhammad?" "No,"
         he replied.

            When Budayl set out for Mecca, Abu Sufyan said, "If in fact he
         went to Medina, he will have fed his camel date pits there." So he
         went to the place where his camel had rested, picked up some of
         its droppings, crumbled them, and saw date pits in them. "I swear
         by God," he said, "Budayl went to Muhammad!"

            Abu Sufyan then set out and went to the Messenger of God in
         Medina. Abu Sufyan [first] visited his own daughter, Umm Habi-
         bah bt. Abi Sufyan 689 When he was about to sit on the bed of the
         Messenger of God, she folded it up to stop him. He said, "My
         daughter, by God, I don't know whether you think I am too good
         for this bed or you think it is too good for me." She said: "It is the
         bed of the Messenger of God, and you are an unclean polytheist. I
         did not want you to sit on the bed of the Messenger of God." He
         said, "My daughter, by God, evil came over you after you left me."

            Then he went out and came to the Messenger of God. He spoke
         to him, but the Messenger of God gave him no reply. Then he
         went to Abu Bakr and asked him to speak to the Messenger of God
         for him, but Abu Bakr said, "I will not do it.,, Then he went to
         'Umar b. al-Khattab and spoke to him. 'Umar said: "I intercede for
         you with the Messenger of God! By God, if I found only ant grubs
         [to eat], I would fight you!" Abu Sufyan then left and went to see
         'All b. AbiTalib. Fatimah, the daughter of the Messenger of God,
         was with him, and with her was al-Iiasan b. 'All, a young child
         crawling before her. Abu Sufyan said: "'All, you are the nearest of
         the men to me in kinship and the closest of them in relationship. I
        have come with a request, and I will not go back empty-handed as
         I came. Intercede for us with the Messenger of God!" He said:
         "Woe to you, Abu Sufyan. By God, the Messenger of God has
         determined on a matter about which we cannot speak to him."
         Abu Sufyan then turned to Fatimah and said, "Daughter of
         Muhammad, don't you want to command your little son here to
         make peace among the people,690 so that he will be lord of the

          689. Cf. the account of her marriage to Muhammad at pp . ro9-so, above.
          690. The sense of the passage depends on the fact that Arabic yufiru bayna al-
        nds, means literally, "extend protection among the people (so that neither side
        commits aggression against the other)" but also has the extended sense of "procure

[[p 190]]
The Events of the Year 8 165

 Arabs forever?" "By God," she said, "my little son is not old
 enough to make peace among the people, and no one can do so
 against the will of the Messenger of God." Abu Sufyan said [ad-
 dressing 'Ali]: "Abu al-Hasan, I see that matters have become
 difficult for me. Give me advice!" 'Ali said to him: "By God, I
 know of nothing that will be of any use to you. However, since
 you are the lord of the Banu Kinanah, go and make peace among
 the people, and then return to your country." Abu SufyAn asked,
 "Do you think that will be of any use to me? " "No, by God,"
 replied 'Ali, "I do not think so, but I can find nothing else for you
 to do." So Abu Sufyan stood up in the mosque and said, "People, I
 hereby make peace among the people." Then he mounted his
 camel and departed.

   When Abu Sufyan came to Quraysh, they asked, "What is your
 news?" He said: "I went to Muhammad and spoke to him; and, by
 God, he gave me no reply. Then I went to In Abi Quhafah and got
 nothing good from him. Then I went to Ibn al-KhattAb, whom I
 found to be the most hostile of them. Then I went to 'Ali b. Abi
Talib, whom I found to be the mildest of them. He advised me to
do something that I have done, but, by God, I do not know
whether it will be of any use tome or not." They asked, "What did
he command you?" He replied, "He commanded me to make
peace among the people, and I did it." They asked, "Has Muham-
mad approved it?" "No," he said. "Woe to you!" they said. "By
God, he did no more than play with you. What you have said is of
no use to us." Abu Sufyan replied, "No, by God, I found nothing
else to do."

   The Messenger of God commanded the people to prepare for [1625]
travel, and he commanded his family to make his travel prepara-
tions. Abu Bakr visited his daughter 'A'ishah while she was mov-
ing some of the travel gear of the Messenger of God. "Daughter,"
asked Abu Bakr, "has the Messenger of God commanded you to
make preparations for him to travel?" "Yes," she said, " so make
yourself ready to travel!" "Where," he asked, "do you think he
intends to go?" She said, "By God, I do not know."

or mediate peace "-see ed. Leiden, Glossarium, p. ctxxvj Lane, Lexicon, II, 483)
E12, s.v. D1iwar.

[[p 191]]
166 The Victory of Islam

             Then the Messenger of God informed the people that he would
          travel to Mecca. He commanded them to prepare themselves
          quickly, and he said, "0 God, keep spies and news from Quraysh
          until we take them by surprise in their territory." So the people
           made preparations for travel. Hassan b. Thabit al-An$ari com-
          posed the following verses to rouse the people, mentioning the
           killing of the men of Khuza'ah.691

          I received word, though I was not present, that in the plain of
                Mecca
               are men of the Banu Ka'b whose necks were cut

          At the hands of men who did not unsheathe their swords,
                and [there were] many slain men whose graveclothes were
                not hidden [in earth].692

          Would that I knew whether my help [to Khuza'ah] will harm
                Suhayl b. 'Amr-with its heat and its punishment-

           And $afwan, an old camel the edge of y►hose anus has been cut.
                  For this is the time for war-its milking girth has been
                  firmly tied.693

          You will not be safe from us, son of Umm MujAlid,
                  when it is milked, yielding pure milk, and its teeth become
                  strong.

[1626] So do not become impatient with it! Our swords
                have a fall the gate of which opens to reveal death.

          I;iassan's words, "at the hands of men who did not unsheathe their
           swords," refer to Qurayshj "son of Umm Mujalid" refers to
           'Ikrimah b. Abi jahl.

             According to Ibn Ilumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
           Muhammad b. ja'far b. al-Zubayr-'Urwah b. al-Zubayr and oth-
           ers of our scholars, who said: When the Messenger of God had
           decided to go to Mecca, Halib b. Abi Balta'ah wrote a letter to

                  691. For variant readings , one additional verse, and comment, see Diwdn of
               ilassan b. Thabit, I, 296-97, and II, 218.

                692. I.e., they were killed indirectly by Quraysh, who, although they did not
             draw their own swords, aided the Banu Bakr. The second part of the verse refers to
             the dead who remained unburied.

                693. The metaphor is complex: the'i.ab is a cord used to tie the leg of the camel
             during milking. War is not only compared to a camel (a common metaphor) but to a
             camel ready to be milked, so that war (the death-bringer) is compared paradoxically
             to milk ( the sustainer of life).

[[p 192]]
The Events of the Year 8 167

Quraysh informing them of the decision of the Messenger of God                             [16271
to go to them, and he gave the letter to a woman. (Muhammad b.
Ja'far alleged she was from [the tribe of J Muzaynahj others as-
serted that she was Sarah, a mawlah of one of the sons of 'Abd al-
Muttalib.) He paid her to deliver it to Quraysh. She put it on her
head, twisted the hair on the sides of her head over it, and set out
carrying it. But word of what HAtib had done came to the Mes-
senger of God from heaven, and he sent out 'All b. Abi Talib and al-
Zubayr b. al-'Awwam, saying, "Overtake a woman with whom
Hatib has sent a letter to Quraysh warning them of what we have
decided about them." The two went out and overtook her at al-
Hulayfah, al-Hulayfah of Ibn Abi Ahmad.694 They made her dis-
mount and searched her saddle, but found nothing. 'Ali b. Abi
Talib said to her: "I swear that the Messenger of God did not lie,
nor have we lied. You shall produce this letter to me, or we will
strip you." When she saw that he was serious, she said, "Turn
away from me." He turned away from her, and she untied the side-
locks of her head, took out the letter, and handed it to him. He
brought it to the Messenger of God.

   The Messenger of God summoned Hatib and said, "Hatib, what

made you do this?" He said: "Messenger of God, by God, I am a
believer in God and His Messenger. I have not changed or altered.
But I was a man with no roots or clan among the people, while 1

had family and children among them.695 And so I did them this
favor for their sake." 'Umar b. al-Khattab said, "Messenger of God,
let me cut off his head, for the man has played the hypocrite." The
Messenger of God said: "How do you know, 'Umar? Perhaps God
looked down on those who were at Badr696 on the day of the battle
and said, 'Do what you will, for I have forgiven you."' Concerning
Hatib, God revealed: "0 believers, take not My enemy and your

   694. If the reading al -Hulayfah is correct (and is the same place as the well-
known Dhu al-Hulayfah(, she was overtaken about six miles from Medina. Ibn
Hisham reads al-Khaliqah, which is 12 miles from Medina (cf. al-Samhiudi,
Khu1a$at al-wafd', 542, 5461. The identification of the place as belonging to "Ibn
Abi Alhmad" renders both identifications doubtful.

   695. I.e., the Meccans.
   696. For the presence of IIAlib at the Battle of Badr, see W, I, 140 , 154) Ibn Hajar,
I$abah, I, 314.

[[p 193]]
168  The Victory of Islam

          enemy for friends"-to the words, "to Thee we turn," and the end
          of the story.697

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
           Muhammad b. Muslim al-Zuhri-'Ubaydallah b. 'Abdallah b.
           'Utbah b. Masud-Ibn 'Abbas, who said: Then the Messenger of
           God went on his journey and left Abu Ruhm Kulthum b. IHugayn
          b. Khalaf al-Ghifari in charge of Medina. He departed on the tenth
           day of the month of Ramadan.698 The Messenger of God fasted,
(162,8] and the people fasted with him. When he was at al-Kadid, between
           Usfan and Amaj, the Messenger of God broke his fast. He pro-
           ceeded on and encamped at Marr al-Zahran with 1o,ooo Muslims.
           [Members of the tribe of ] Sulaym numbered 700, [members of the
           tribe] of Muzaynah 1,ooo, and in all the tribes there were a number
           of men and Muslims. The Emigrants and Anger went forth all
           together with the Messenger of God; not one of them hung back
          from him. When the Messenger of God encamped at Marr al-
          Zahran, reports had been kept hidden from Quraysh; no news was
           reaching them about the Messenger of God, and they did not know
          what he would do. That night, Abu Sufyan b. Harb, Hakim b.
           Hizam, and Budayl b. Warga' went out to seek news, hoping to
           find a report or hear of one.

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
           al-Abbas b. 'Abdallah b. Ma'bad b. al-'Abbas b. 'Abd al-
           Mullalib699-Ibn 'Abbas: Al= Abbas b. 'Abd al-Muttalib met the
           Messenger of God along the way. Abu Sufyan b. al-Harith700 and
           'Abdallah b. Abi Umayyah b. al-Mughirah701 had met the Mes-

  697. Qur'an 6o: 1-4. The passage uses the story of Abraham and his followers as
an example of the enmity between believers and nonbelievers: "You have a good
example in Abraham, and those with him , when they said to their people, 'We are
quit of you and that you serve, apart from God. We disbelieve in you, and between
us and you enmity has shown itself, and hatred for ever, until you believe in God
alone.... Our Lord, in Thee we trust, to Thee we turn.'

   698. io Ramadan of A.H. 8 fell on r January 630.
  699. AI-'Abbas b. 'Abdallah b. Ma'bad b. 'Abbas b. 'Abd al -Muttalib al-Hishimi
of Medina is mentioned without dates in Ibn Hajar , Tahdhib, V, r2o. According to
Tahdhib, VI, 39, his grandfather, Ma'bad, was the brother of 'Abdallah b. 'Abbas.
  700. Abu Sufyan ( al-Mughirah) b. al-l lirith b . Abd al-Muttalib, Muhammad's
cousin (son of his paternal uncle), was a poet and had written satires against
Muhammad. See W, II, 8o6- r2, Ibn Hajar, Isabah, VII, 86-87, GAS, II, 275.
  701. 'Abdallah b. Abi Umayyah b. al-Mughirah was the half-brother of Mulam-
mad's wife Umm Salamah by Mubammad 's paternal aunt 'Atikah bt. 'Abd al.

[[p 194]]
The Events of the Year 8 169

senger of God at Niq al-'Ugab , between Mecca and Medina.702                            (1629J
They sought to have an interview with the Messenger of God, and
Umm Salamah spoke to him about them , saying, "Messenger of
God, the son of your paternal uncle and the son of your paternal
aunt and relative by marriage !" He said: "I have no need for the
two. As for the son of my paternal uncle , he injured my honor, as
for the son of my paternal aunt and my relative by marriage, he is
the one who said what he said to me in Mecca ." When word of this
came out to them-Abu Sufyan (b. al-Ilarithl had a young son of
his with him-he said, "By God, he shall let me in, or I will take
the hand of this son of mine and we will go into the open country
until we die of thirst and hunger ." When this was reported to the
Messenger of God, he softened toward the two of them. He gave
permission, and they came before him and became Muslims. Abu
Sufyan (b. al-I larith) recited to him the following verses , which he
composed about his becoming a Muslim and to excuse himself for
what he had done in the past:703

By my life, the day I carried a banner
     that the horsemen of al-Lat704 might overcome the
     horsemen of Muhammad,

I was like a perplexed traveler in a dark night;
     but now the time has come when I am guided and find the
     way.

A Guide other than myself guided me; there overcame me,

Muttalib. His sceptical arguments against Islam during Muhammad 's days in
Mecca-they are said to have grieved Muhammad greatly-are recorded in IH, I,
298 (tr. Guillaume, 134-35 ). After his conversion, he was killed fighting as a
Muslim at the siege of al-'J a'if in A.H . 8/630--see IH, N, 486 (tr. Guillaume, 591).

   702. A place between Mecca and Medina , near al-Juhfah; cf. Yiqut, Mu'jam al-

bulddn, VIII, 360.
  703. The poem should be read in connection with the first of the two accounts

in al-Wigidi of the conversion of Abu Sufyan b. al-I larith, which is quite different
from the second account (the one that al-Tabari includes ). In al-Wagidi 's first
account, Abu Sufyan repeatedly attempted to find favor with Muhammad on the
eve of the conquest of Mecca but was not successful until his wife interceded for
him during the women's pledge of allegiance after the conquest . He subsequently
accompanied Muhammad to the Battle of Hunayn against the tribes of Hawazin
and Thagif (the latter from the town of al-TWif ). Thus the poem apparently refers to
events that took place after the conquest of Mecca and cannot belong to the
conversion story given by al-Tabari.

   704. See note 325, above.

[[p 195]]
170 The Victory of Islam

              with God, one whom I had expelled utterly.
          I used to shun and diligently keep my distance from

                Muhammad;
                yet I was called related to Muhammad, though I did not
                declare my kinship.705
          They-what sort are they? Whoever does not profess their false
                opinion,
                though he be of sound judgment, is blamed and ridiculed.
          I wanted to please them, but I could not adhere (to himi
                with the people, so long as I was not guided in every place
                of abode.
          Say then to Thaqif that I do not want to fight them,
                and say this to Thagif: "Threaten others than me."
          I was not in the army that overcame 'Amin;
                it did not happen because of my tongue or my hand:
          [It was) tribes that came from far away lands-
                strangers who came from Suham and Surdad.706

[16301 Some have alleged that when he recited to the Messenger of God
          the words, "there overcame me, with God, one whom I had ex-
          pelled utterly," the Prophet struck his chest and said, "You ex-
          pelled me utterly?"707
             According to al-Wagidi:708 When the Messenger of God set out
          for Mecca, some said his destination was Quraysh, some said it
          was Hawazin, and some said it was Thagif. He sent to the tribes,
          but they hung back from him, and he appointed no one to military
           commands and displayed no banners. Then, when he reached
           Qudayd, the Banu Sulaym met him with horses and full arma-

                  705. According to material in W, II, 811, this refers to an occasion when Abil
               Sufyan b. al-liarith fled to the court of the Byzantine emperor. Asked to identify
               himself, he gave his name as Abu Sufyan , son of al-l l rlth, son of 'Abd al-Mullalib.
               The emperor immediately said, "If you are telling the truth, you must be the
               cousin of Muhammad , the son of 'Abdallah, the son of 'Abd al-Mullalib." Im-
               pressed by the fact that although he had fled from Muhammad 's reach and was so
               far away, he was known to the emperor only by his relation to Muhammad, Abtl
               Sufyan began to doubt the truth of paganism and lean toward Islam.

                706. Suham (also vocalized as Saham) and Surdad were two places in Yemen. See
             Yagat, Mu'jam al-buldan, V, 67, 184.

                  707. As the parallel in W, II, six , makes clear, the sentence is a rhetorical
               question. In al-Wagidi, Muhammad adds, "Rather, God has utterly expelled you!"

                  708. Cf. W, II, 812 ff.

[[p 196]]
The Events of the Year 8 171

ment. 'Uyaynah [b. Hisn]709 joined the Messenger of God at al-`Arj
with a group of his companions. Al-Agra' b. 1Uabis710 joined him at
al-SuqyA. 'Uyaynah said: "Messenger of God, by God I see neither
the implements of war nor preparation to enter a state of consecra-
tion. Where then are you heading, Messenger of God?" The Mes-
senger of God said, "Where God wills." The Messenger of God
ordered that the information be kept ambiguous, and he en-
camped at Marr al-7ahran. Al-'Abbas met him at al-Sugya, and
Makhramah b. Nawfal met him at Niq al-'Ugab. When he en-
camped at Marr al-7ahran, Abu Sufyan b. Harb came out with
Hakim b. I iizam.

   According to Abu Kurayb-Yunus b. Bukayr-Muhammad b.
Ishaq-Husayn b. 'Abdallah b. ' 'Ubaydallah b. 'Abbas711-
'Ikrimah-Ibn 'Abbas, who said:712 When the Messenger of God
encamped at Marr al-7ahran, al-'Abbas b. 'Abd al-Mullalib said,
the Messenger of God having departed from Medina: "Woe to
Quraysh! If the Messenger of God surprises them in their territory
and enters Mecca by force, it means the destruction of Quraysh
forever." So he seated himself on the white mule of the Messenger [1631]
of God and said, "I will go out to al-Arak;713 perhaps I shall see a
firewood gleaner, or someone bringing milk, or someone coming
in who will enter Mecca and inform them where the Messenger of
God is, so that they will go to him and ask him for a promise of
safety."

   [Continuing, al-'Abbas related:] So I set out. By God, while I was
going through al-Arak seeking what I had come out to find, I heard
the voices of Abu Sufyan b. Harb, Hakim b. Hizam, and Budayl b.
Warga', who had come out in search of information about the
Messenger of God. I heard Abu Sufyan say, "By God, I have never
seen fires like those I see today!" Budayl said, "These, by God, are
the fires of Khuza'ah gathered for war." Abu Sufyan said,

   709. Cf. W, II, 803-4-
  71o. Al-Agra' b. Habis was said to be the first Muslim from the tribe of Tamim.
See Watt, Muhammad at Medina, 137-38.
   711. llusayn b. 'Abdallah b. Ubaydallih b. 'Abbas died ca . 140/757. See In
I;lajar, Tahdhfb, II, 341-42.
   712. Parallel: Aghdni, VI, 97-98.
  713. Wadi al-Arak !Arak-Tree Valley ) is a valley near Mecca; see Yaqut , Mu'iam
al-bulddn, I, 169.

[[p 197]]
172 The Victory of Islam

          "Khuza'ah are too lowly and abject for that." Recognizing his
          voice, I said, "Abu Hanzalah!"714 He said, "Abu al-Fa0"715
          "Yes!" I said. He said: "At your service, may my father and mother
          be your ransom ! What news do you have? " I said: "Here is the
          Messenger of God behind me. He has come against you with a
          force you cannot resist-io,ooo Muslims." "What," he asked, "do
          you command me?" I said,. "Mount the rump of this mule, and I
          will ask the Messenger of God to grant you a promise of safety; for,
          by God, if he gets hold of you, he will cut off your head." He
          mounted behind me, and I set out with him , urging the mule of
          the Messenger of God toward the Messenger of God. Whenever I
          passed one of the fires of the Muslims , they looked at me and said,
           "The uncle of the Messenger of God on the mule of the Messenger
           of God! " Finally, I passed the fire of 'Umar b. al-Khaxlab, who said:
           "Abu Sufyan! Praise be to God, who has delivered you up without
           treaty or covenant!" He ran toward the Prophet, and I urged the
[1632] mule, Abu Sufyan riding behind me, until I jumped off at the door
          of the tent, having outdistanced Umar by as much as a slow
           mount can outdistance a slow man . 'Umar went before the Mes-
           senger of God and said: "Messenger of God, here is Abu SufyAn,
           the enemy of God. God has delivered him up without treaty or
           covenant. Let me cut off his head !" I said, "Messenger of God, I
           have granted him protection." Then I sat by the Messenger of God
           and took hold of his head. I said, "By God, no one but I shall speak
           confidentially to him today." When 'Umar kept speaking to him
           at length, I said: "Take it easy, 'Umar! By God, you are doing this
           only because he is from the Banu 'Abd Manaf; if he had been from
           the Banu 'Adi b. Ka'b,716 you would not have said this." He said:
           "Take it easy, 'Abbas! By God, your [conversion to] Islam, the day
           you became a Muslim, was more pleasing to me than the conver-
           sion of [my father] al-Khallab would have been, had he become a
           Muslim; for I know that your [conversion to] Islam was more
           pleasing to the Messenger of God than that of al-Khallab would
           have been, had he become a Muslim ." The Messenger of God said:

                714. Abu 1:Ian;alah is the kunyah of Abu Sufyan.
                715. Abu al-Fa511 is the kunyah of al-'Abbas.
                716. The Band 'Adi b. Ka'b were 'Umar's clan.

[[p 198]]
The Events of the Year 8 173

 "Go, for we have promised him safety. Bring him to me tomorrow                      ['1633]
 morning."

    So'Umar took Abu Sufyan back to his dwelling. In the morning,
 he brought him to the Messenger of God, who, when he saw him,
 said, "Alas, Abu Sufyan, hasn't the time come for you to know
 that there is no god but God?" Abu Sufyan said: "May my father
 and mother be your ransom! How concerned you are for your kin,
how forbearing, and how generous ! By God, I think that if there
were another god along with God, he would have availed me
somewhat." "Alas, Abu Sufyan," he said, "hasn't the time come
for you to know that I am the Messenger of God?" Abu Sufyan
said: "May my father and mother be your ransom! How concerned
you are for your kin, how forbearing, and how generous! As for this
matter, there is something of it in my mind."

   (Al-'Abbas continued his narrative, saying:) So I said to him:

"Woe to you! Recite the testimony of truth before, by God, your
head is cut off!" And he recited the shahadah.717

   The Messenger of God said to al-'Abbas, when Abu Sufyan re-
cited the shahadah, "Go back, 'Abbas, and detain him by the spur
of the mountain in the narrow part of the valley until the troops of
God pass by him.718

   [Al-'Abbas continued his narrative, saying:] So I said to him,
"Messenger of God, Abu Sufyan is a man who loves glory. Grant
him something that shall be [a cause of glory for him] among his
clansmen." He said, "Yes; whoever enters the house of Abu Suf-
yan shall be safe; anyone who enters the sanctuary719 shall be safe;
and anyone who locks his door behind him shall be safe."

  I went out and detained Abu Sufyan by the spur of the mountain
in the narrow part of the valley, and the tribes passed by him. He
would ask, "Who are these, 'Abbas?" I would say, "Sulaym," and
he would say, "What have Ito do with Sulaym?" A tribe would
pass by him, and he would ask, "Who are these?" I would say,
"Aslam," and he would say, "What have I to do with Aslam?"

   717. I.e., the formula of testimony or profession of faith whereby one becomes a
Muslim: "There is no god but God; Muhammad is the Messenger of God."

   718. The parallel in IH, IV, 403, adds: "and he sees them," implying that the
purpose is to impress Abu Sufyan.

  719. Arabic: masjid, here meaning the area around the Ka 'bah in Mecca; in later
usage, a mosque. On the development of the term see EP, s.v. Masdiid.

[[p 199]]
174 The Victory of Islam

[1634]  Juhaynah would pass by him, and he would say, "What have I to
        do with Juhaynah?" Finally, the Messenger of God passed by with
        al-Khadrd',720 the squadron of the Messenger of God, composed of
        Emigrants and An^ar in iron [armor], with only their eyes visible.
        He asked, "Who are these, Abu al-Fadl?" I said, "This is the Mes-

        senger of God amid the Emigrants and An§ar." He said, "Abu al-
        Fadl, your nephew's kingdom has become great !" I said: "Woe to
        you! It is prophethood."721 He said, "All right then." I said, "Go

        join your people now, and warn them!"
           Abu Sufyan departed in haste. When he reached Mecca, he

        shouted in the sanctuary, "People of Quraysh, behold Muhammad
        has come upon you with forces you cannot resist ." "What then?"
        they asked. He said, "Anyone who enters my house will be safe."
        They said, "Alas, what will your house avail us?" He said, "Any-
        one who enters the sanctuary will be safe , and anyone who locks
        his door behind him will be safe."
        According to 'Abd al-Warith b. 'Abd al-$ amad b. 'Abd al-
        Warith722-his father ['Abd al-$amad b. 'Abd al-Warith]723--
        Aban al-'Allar724-_Hisham b. 'Urwah-'Urwah (b. al-Zubayr],
        who wrote [the following letter] to 'Abd al-Malik b. Marwan:725
        To proceed: You wrote to me asking about Khalid b. al-Walid,
        whether he fought on the day of the conquest, and under whose
        command he fought. As regards Khalid on the day of the conquest,
        he was on the side of the Prophet. When the Prophet traveled the
        Marr basin heading for Mecca, Quraysh had already sent Abu Suf-
        yan and Hakim b. I;iizam to meet the Messenger of God, not
        knowing, when they sent the two, where the Prophet was heading,
        whether to them or to al-Ta'if-that was at the time of the con-

           720. The name means "green, greenish black, tawny " and is said to be derived
        from the appearance of their armor] see Ibn Hishim's comment, IN, IV, 404 (tr.

        Guillaume, 548, and note ad loc.!.
          721. I.e., not secular kingship such as had been claimed by powerful Arab chief-

        tains in the past. On the disapproval of kings and kingship in early Islam, see Ei2,

        s.v. Malik.
          722. 'Abd al-Warith b. Abd al -$amad b. 'Abd al-Warith died in 252/866. See Ibn

        Hajar, Tahdhib, VII, 390.
           723. 'Abd al-$amad b. 'Abd al-Warith b. Said al-'Anbirl al-BaQri died in 206 or

        207/821 -22. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 327-28. .
           724. For Abin b. Yazid al-'Attar at-Bald, see Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 202-2.

           725. See note 447, above.

[[p 200]]
The Events of the Year 8 175

quest. Abu Sufyan and Hakim b. Hizam asked Budayl b. Warga' to
follow-they wanted him to accompany them. They were only
Abu Sufyan, Hakim b. Hizam, and Budayl. When [Qurayshj sent
them to the Messenger of God, they said to them, "Let us not be
approached from behind..you, for we do not know against whom
Muhammad intends to go, whether he intends to go against us,
against Hawazin, or against Thaqif." Between the Prophet and
Quraysh there was a peace made on the day of al-Hudaybiyah,
with a pact and a fixed period of time. The Banu Bakr were in that
peace on the side of Quraysh. Then a group of the Banu Ka`b and a
group of the Banu Bakr fought with each other. Among the terms
on which the Messenger of God and Quraysh had made peace was
that there should be neither betrayal nor clandestine theft.726
Quraysh aided the Banu Bakr with weapons, and the Banu Ka'b
suspected Quraysh. That is why the Messenger of God attacked
the people of Mecca . During this expedition of his, he met Abu
Sufyan, Hakim, and Budayl at Marr al-Zahran. They had no idea
that the Messenger of God had encamped at Marr until they sud- [1635]
denly came upon him. When they saw him at Marr, Abu Sufyan,
Budayl, and Hakim went before him in his dwelling at Man; al-
Zahran and swore allegiance to him. After they swore allegiance
to him, he sent them ahead of him to Quraysh, to summon them
to Islam. I have been told that he said, "Whoever enters the house
of Abu Sufyan shall be safe"-his house was in the upper part of
Mecca-"and whoever enters the house of Ijakim"-it was in the
lower part of Mecca-"shall be safe, and whoever locks his door
and withholds his hand shall be safe."

  After Abu Sufyan and Hakim left the presence of the Prophet
heading for Mecca, he sent al-Zubayr after them, gave him his
banner, and appointed him commander over the horsemen of the
Emigrants and AMar. He commanded him to plant his banner in
the upper part of Mecca at al-Hajun .727 He said to al-Zubayr, "Do
not depart from where I have commanded you to plant my banner
until I come to you." (The Messenger of God entered [Mecca] from
there.) He commanded Khalid b. al-Waled, along with those of [the
tribe of J Quda'ah and the Banu Sulaym who had become Muslims

   726. See p. 86 and note 372, above.
  727. Al-Hajun is a mountain overlooking Mecca.

[[p 201]]
176 The Victory of Islam

          and some people who had become Muslims only a short time
          before, to enter through the lower part of Mecca-that was where
          the Banu Bakr were, whom Quraysh had called on for aid, the Banu
          al-I iarith b. 'Abd Manat, and the Ahabish728 whom Quraysh had
          commanded to be in the lower part of Mecca. So Khalid entered
          against them by the lower part of Mecca.

             I have been told that the Prophet said to Khalid and al-Zubayr
          when he dispatched them, "Fight only those who fight you."
          When Khalid came upon the Banu Bakr and the Ahabish in the
           lower part of Mecca, he fought them, and God put them to flight.
          That was the only. fighting that took place in Mecca. However,
           Kurz b. Jabir, one of the Banu Muharib b. Fihr, and Ibn al-Ash'ar, a
           man from the Banu Ka'b-the two were among al-Zubayr's
(1636] horsemen-took the road to Kada'.729 They did not take the route
            that al-Zubayr took, which he had been commanded to take. They
            encountered a squadron of Quraysh on the slope of Kada' and were
            killed. There was no fighting by al-Zubayr in the upper part of
            Mecca. The Prophet arrived from there. The people stood before
            him to swear allegiance to him, and so the people of Mecca be-
            came Muslims . The Prophet stayed among them half a month, no
            more-until Hawazin and Thagif came and encamped at Hunayn.

             According to Ibn I;Iumayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
           'Abdallah b. Abi Najih: When the Prophet sent his army in divi-
           sions from Dhu Tuwa, he commanded al-Zubayr, who was in
           charge of the left wing, to make his entry with some of the forces
           by way of Kuda.730 He commanded Sa'd b. Ubadah to make his
           entry with some of the forces by way of Kada'. Some scholars
           assert that when Sa 'd was sent out, he said as he made his entry,
           "Today is the day of battle) today the sacred territory is deemed
           profane."731 Hearing this, one of the Emigrants said: "Messenger
           of God, hear what Sa'd b. 'Ubadah has said! We fear that he may
           assault Quraysh." The Messenger of God said to 'Ali b. Abi Talib:

                  728. See note 74, above.
                  729. See note 688, above.
                  730. Kuda (distinct from KadA, with which it is sometimes confused, as shown
               by the apparatus criticus of the Leiden edition ) is a mountain in the lower (i.e.,
               southern) part of Mecca . KadA' is in the upper (i.e., northern) part. See YAgtit,
               Mu'jam al-buldan, VII, 220-211 map in EI2, VI, 163.
                  731. The slogan is in rhymed prose (sal').

[[p 202]]
The Events of the Year 8 177

"Overtake him, and take the banner. You be the one who takes it                      [1637]
in!"

  According to Ibn Humayd- Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Abdallah b.
Abi Najih: The Messenger of God commanded Khalid b. al-Walid
to enter the lower part of Mecca by way of al-Li1732 with some of
the forces. KhAlid was in charge of the right wing, which included
Aslam, Ghifar, Muzaynah, Juhaynah, and other [tribes] of the
Arabs. Abu 'Ubaydah b. al-Jarrah advanced with the line of Mus-
lims, moving toward Mecca in front of the Messenger of God. The
Messenger of God entered by way of Adhakhir733 and halted in the
upper part of Mecca: there his round tent was pitched.

  According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-Abdallah b.
Abi Najih and 'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr: $afwan b. Umayyah,
'Ikrimah b. Abi Jahl, and Suhayl b. 'Amr had gathered men at al-
Khandamah734 to fight. I3imas b. Qays b. Khalid, a member of the
Banu Bakr, was readying weapons before the Messenger of God
entered Mecca and set it in order. His wife said to him, "Why are
you readying what I see?" He said, "On account of Muhammad
and his forces." "By God," she replied, "I think nothing can stand
up to Muhammad and his forces." He said, "By God, I hope to
make some of them serve you!" Then he said:

If you advance today, I have no excuse!
     Here is full panoply: a long-bladed spear,
     and a two-edged [sword] quick to be drawn.

He took up a position at al-Khandamah with $afwan, Suhayl b.
'Amr, and 'Ikrimah. When the Muslims, forces of Khalid b. al-
Walid, met them, they skirmished. Kurz b. Jabir b. Hisl b. al-Ajabb
b. Habib b. 'Amr b. Shayban b. Muharib b. Fihr and Khunays735 b. j16381
Khalid (who is al-Ash'ar) b. Rabi'ah b. Aram b. Pabis b. Haram b.
Habashiyyah b. Ka'b b. 'Amr (an ally of the Banu Munqidh) were
killed. The two were among the horsemen of KhAlid b. al-Walid,
but they became separated from him and took a different route

   732. I.e., by the main thoroughfare from the south . See Hamidullah, Bat-
tlefields, 39.

   733. The vocalization Adhakhir is given by Yaqut , Mu'jam al-buldan , I, i58-sq.

   734. Al-I{handamah is a mountain east of Mecca. See Yaqut, Mu'jam al-buldan,

III, 470-71) map in E12, VI, 163.
   735. Ms. C and ed. Cairo: liubaysh.

[[p 203]]
178 The Victory of Islam

           from his. Both of them were killed. Khunays was killed before
           Kurz b . Jabir. Kurz set him in front of him736 and, reciting the
           following verses of rajaz, fought until he was killed:

           A light-complexioned woman of the Band Fihr,
                spotless of face, spotless of breast, knows
                that today I will strike to protect Abu $akhr.

           (Khunays was nicknamed Abd $akhr.) Of [the tribe ofJ Juhaynah,
           Salamah b. al-Mayla', one of the horsemen of Khalid b. al-Walid,
           was killed. About twelve or thirteen of the polytheists were killed,
           and then the polytheists were routed. Himas left the scene in
           flight. He entered his house and said to his wife, "Lock my door
           behind me." "And where," she asked, "is what you used to say?"
           So he said:

[16391 Had you been present at the battle of al-Khandamah,
                when $afwan fled and 'Ikrimah fled;

          While Abu Yazid737 was standing like a pillar,738
                and the Muslims met them with swords

          That cut off every arm and skull
                with their blows, with only battle cries to be heard;

          Behind us their roaring and snarling-
                you would not have spoken the least word of blame.

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Isiaq, who said:
          When the Messenger of God ordered his commanders to enter
          Mecca, he charged them to kill no one except those who fought
           them; however, he gave charge concerning a group of men whom
          he named: he ordered that they should be killed even if they were
          found under the curtains of the Ka'bah. Among them was 'Abdal-
           lah b. Sa'd b. Abi Sari b. Hubayb b. jadhimah b. Na§r b. Malik b.
          I;iisl b. 'Amir b. Lu'ayy. The Messenger of God ordered that he
           should be killed only because he had become a Muslim and then
          had reverted to being a polytheist. He fled to 'Uthman, who was

                736. Le., mounted him in front of him. This seems to be the sense of bayna
             riflayhi, "between his legs."

                  737. Abfi Yazid refers to Suhayl b. 'Amt.
                738. Arabic: ma'tamah. The reading is explained in ed. Leiden, Glossarium, pp.

                   cu-c".

[[p 204]]
The Events of the Year 8 179

his foster-brother,739 and 'Uthman hid him. 'Uthman later
brought him to the Messenger of God after the people of Mecca
had become calm. He asked the Messenger of God to grant him a
promise of safety. The Messenger of God is said to have remained [16401
silent for a long time and then to have said yes. After'Uthman had
taken him away, the Messenger of God said to his companions
who were around him, "By God, I kept silent so that one of you
might go up to him and cut off his head!" One of the Anger said,
"Why didn't you give me a signal, Messenger of God? " He replied,
"A prophet does not kill by making signs."

   Also among them was 'Abdallah b. Khatal, a member of the
Banu Taym b. Ghalib. The Messenger of God ordered that he
should be killed only for the following reason : He was a Muslim,
and the Messenger of God had sent him to collect alms ,740 sending
with him one of the An§ar. With him went a mawld of his, also a
Muslim, to serve him . He halted at a resting place and com-
manded the mawla to slaughter him a goat and make him a meal;
then he went to sleep. When he woke up, the mawld had done
nothing for him; so he attacked him and killed him. Then he
reverted to being a polytheist . He had two singing girls, Fartana
and another with her. The two used to sing satire about the Mes-
senger of God; so the latter commanded that the two of them
should be killed along with him.

   Also among them was al-IIuwayrith b. Nuqaydh b. Wahb b.
'Abd b. Qugayy. He was one of the men who used to molest the
Messenger of God in Mecca.

   Also among them was Miqyas b. $ubabah. The Messenger of
God commanded that he should be killed only because he had
killed the member of the An§ar who had killed his brother by
mistake and had then returned to Quraysh as a renegade.

   Also among them were 'Ikrimah b. Abi Jahl and Sarah, a
mawlah of one of the sons of 'Abd al-Muttalib. She was one of
those who used to molest the Messenger of God in Mecca.
'Ikrimah b. Abi Jahl fled to Yemen. His wife, Umm Hakim bt. al-

   739. I.e., the same woman had nursed them as infants.
   740. Arabic 4adagah (here translated as "alms ") is ambiguous. In later usage it
usually refers to voluntary contributions. In early usage, however, it is often a
synonym for the obligatory contributions known as zakah. See the references in
note 604, above.

[[p 205]]
18o The Victory of Islam

           Harith b. Hisham, became a Muslim. She asked the Messenger of
           God to grant `Ikrimah a promise of safety, and he did so. She set
           out to find him and then brought him to the Messenger of God.
           `Ikrimah, as people relate, used to say that what brought him back
           to Islam after his departure for Yemen was -in his own words: I
116411 was about to set sail for Ethiopia. When I came to board the ship,
           its captain said, "Servant of God, do not board my ship until you
           declare God to be one and repudiate any peers to Him ) for I fear
           that if you do not do so, we shall perish in it." So I asked, "Does no
           one board until he declares God to be one and repudiates all oth-
           ers?" "Yes," he said, "no one boards until he clears himself." So I
           asked: Why then should I depart from Muhammad? By God, this is
           the very message he brought to us: that our God on the sea is [the
           same as[ our God on land! At that moment I came to know Islam,
           and it entered into my heart.

             'Abdallah b. Khalal was killed by Said b. Hurayth al-Makhzumi
          and Abu Barzah al-Aslami: the two shared in his blood. Miqyas b.
          $ubabah was killed by Numaylah b. 'Abdallah, a man of his own
          clan. The sister of Miqyas said:

          By my life, Numaylah shamed his clan
                and distressed winter guests by [killing] Miqyas.

          How excellent it was for one to see a man like Miqyas
                in times when no food was prepared even for women in
                childbirth!741

          As for Ibn Khatal's two singing girls, one was killed and the other
           fled. The Messenger of God later was asked to grant her a promise
          of safety, and he did so. [As for Sarah, he was asked to grant her a
          promise of safety, and he did So. 1742 She lived until someone in the

                741. The line is proverbial for a time of such famine that no food is prepared
             even for those in greatest need of it, or when everyone looks out only for himself.
             Cf. Freytag, Arabum Proverbia, I, 217. The meaning is that Miqyas was generous
             even in times of extreme hardship.

                  742. The Leiden editor restored the sentence from the parallel in IH, IV , 411. The
               text in the manuscripts of al-Tabari implies that it was one of the singing girls
               jFartana, according to Ibn al -Athir) who later was trampled to death. The loss of the
               sentence cif it ever existed in the text of al-Tabari) must have taken place early,
               since the later historian Ibn al-Athir reflects the loss. The account in W, III, 860,
              accords with the text without the sentence. According to al-Wagidi, Sarah was
               killed, as was one of the singing girls) the other singing girl !cf. the next paragraph

[[p 206]]
The Events of the Year 8 181

time of 'Umar b. al-Khallab caused his horse to trample her at al-                   [1642]
Ablali743 and killed her. Al-Huwayrith b. Nuqaydh was killed by
'Ali b. Abi Talib.

   According to al-Wagidi: The Messenger of God commanded
that six men and four women should be killed. Of the men, [al-
Wagidi] mentioned those whom Ibn Ishaq named. The women he
mentioned were Hind bt. 'Utbah b. Rabi'ah, who became a Mus-
lim and swore allegiance; Sarah, the mawldh of 'Amr b. Hashim b.

'Abd al-Mullalib b. 'Abd Manaf, who was killed on that day;
Quraybah, who was killed on that day; and Fartana, who lived
until the caliphate of 'Uthman.

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Umar b.
Musa b. al-Wajih-Qatadah al-Sadusi: Having halted by the door
of the Ka'bah, the Messenger of God stood up and said: "There is
no god but God alone; He has no partner. He has fulfilled His
promise and helped His servant. He alone has put to flight the
parties who leagued together. Behold, every alleged claim of he-
reditary privilege, or blood, or wealth is abolished,744 except the
custodianship of the Ka'bah and the right of supplying water to
pilgrims. 745 Behold, the one slain by an error that is like intention,
[by] whip or staff-for both cases the blood money shall be made
rigorous: [a hundred camels],746 forty of them with their foals in
their wombs. People of Quraysh, God has taken from you the
haughtiness of the Time of Ignorance and its pride in ancestors.
Mankind is from Adam, and Adam was created from dust." Then
the Messenger of God recited:747 "0 mankind, We have created

of al-Tabari) was granted a pardon; only to die of a broken rib in the time of
'Uthman (not 'Omar).

   743. Al-AbIab (abta$ is a wash, a broad, dry stream bed with pebbles and gravel)
is an area north of Mecca on the way to Mina . See Yaqut, Mu'jam al-buldan, I, 85-

861 map in E11, VI, 163.
  744. Literally, "is [as dust) under these my feet." Cf. al-Zamakhshari, Asas al-

balaghah, 496: "'Put it under your feet' means 'turn from it."'
  745. On the custodianship (sidanah) of the Kabah and the right of supplying

water (sigdyah) to pilgrims, see E11, s.v. Ka'ba. Mubammad's uncle, al-'Abbas, was
confirmed in his possession of the sigayah. The custodianship of the Ka'bah was
given to 'Uthman b. Talbah.

  746. The addition from the parallel in In Hishim is not strictly necessary, since
the Arabic diyah mughallaZah "blood money that is made hard, rigorous, or se-
vere" regularly implies a total of zoo camels . Cf. Lane, Lexicon, VI, 2183.

  747. Qur'an 49:13.

[[p 207]]
182 The Victory of Islam

[i643]   you male and female, and made you nations and tribes, that you
          may know one another. Surely the noblest among you in the sight
          of God is the most god-fearing of you"-to the end of the verse.

          "People of Quraysh and people. of Mecca, what do you think I
          intend to do with you?" "Good," they said, "[ for you are] a gen-
          erous fellow tribesman and the son of a generous fellow tribes-
          man!" Then he said, "Go, for you are 'those whose bonds have
          been loosed.' 11748 Thus the Messenger of God emancipated them,
        although God had enabled him to take their persons by force and
          they were his booty. Therefore the people of Mecca are known as
          al-Tulaga' (Those Whose Bonds Have Been Loosed).

            The people assembled in Mecca to swear allegiance to the Mes-
          senger of God in Islam . As I have been informed, he sat for them on
          al-$afa.749 'Umar b. al-Khattab was below the Messenger of God,
          lower than the place where he sat, administering the oath to the

          people. He received from them the oath of allegiance to the Mes-
          senger of God, to heed and obey God and His Messenger to the
          extent of their ability. That was the oath he administered to those
          who swore allegiance to the Messenger of God in Islam.

            When the Messenger of God was finished with the men's swear-
          ing of allegiance, the women swore allegiance. Some of the
          women of Quraysh assembled before him. Among them was Hind

          bt. 'Utbah, veiled and disguised because of her offense and-what

          she had done to Hamzah; for she feared that the Messenger of God
          would punish her for her offense.750 When the women approached
          to swear allegiance to him, the Messenger of God said, as I have
          been informed, "You are swearing allegiance to me on condition
          that you will associate nothing with God as a partner." Hind said:

           748. Arabic fulagd ' (plural of faliq), meaning "a captive having his bond loosed
        from him," or "a man freed from slavery, emancipated," became a technical term
        for those Quraysh who became Muslims at the time of the conquest of Mecca. See
        ed. Leiden, Glossarium, p. cccxurt.

          749. Al-$afa was a low hill to the southeast of the Meccan sanctuary . Together
        with its neighboring hill to the north, Marwah, it still forms part of the sacred
        terrain of the pilgrimage as the site of the say or ritual running between al-$afa and
        Marwah to commemorate Hagar's frantic search for water for her son Ismail
        (Ishmael). See Peters, The Hajj, r8-i9.

          750. For the part of Abu SufyAn's wife Hind in mutilating the bodies of the
        Muslims slain at the Battle of Ul;ud, including the body of Mul}ammad 's uncle
        Hamzah, see al-Tabari, I, 141 5; IH, III, 9r-92 (tr. Guillaume, 385-86), and E12, s.v.

        Hind bt. 'Utba.

[[p 208]]
The Events of the Year 8 183

"By God, you are imposing something on us that you are not                           [1644)
imposing on the men . We will grant it to you ." He said, "Do not
steal." She said, "By God, I used to take one trifle or another from
Abu Sufyan's property, and I do not know whether it was permit-
ted for me or not!" Abu Sufyan, who witnessed what she was
saying, said, "As for what you took in the past, you are absolved
regarding it." The Messenger of God said, "Surely you are Hind bt.
`Utbah!" She replied: "I am Hind bt. 'Utbah. Forgive what is
past-may God forgive you." He said, "Do not commit adultery."
She said, "Messenger of God, does a free woman commit adul-
tery?" He said, "Do not kill your children." She said, "We raised
them when they were young, and you killed them at the Battle of

Badr when they were grown; so you and they know better about
it!" 'Umar b. al-Khattab laughed immoderately at her words. The
Messenger of God said, "Do not bring slander that you invent now
and henceforth."751 She said: "Bringing slander is truly ugly.
Sometimes it is better to pass over a thing ." He said, "Do not
disobey me in a good action." She said, "We have not taken our
seats in this place intending to disobey you in a good action." The
Messenger of God said to Umar, "Receive their oath of alle-
giance." The Messenger of God prayed for their forgiveness, and
`Umar received their oath of allegiance; for the Messenger of God
would not shake hands with women or touch a woman, nor would
any woman touch him, except one whom God had made permissi-
ble to him [through marriage] or one too closely related for him to
marry.752

   75 r. The Arabic : bayna aydikunna wa-arjulikunna "between your hands and
your feet" (here translated as "now and henceforth," following the suggestion of
the Leiden editor, Glossarium, p. DLxx) is obscure. The phrase occurs in Qur'An

60:12, which contains a series of injunctions that echo the ones that Mubammad

imposes here. Commentators on the verse see the phrase as referring to a woman's

foisting of a bastard child or foundling on her husband . The Leiden editor rejects
this possibility because the phrase also occurs in masculine contexts . Another
possibility is that it means "of your own doing"-hands and feet being a
metonymy for the entire person.

  752. Normally the oath of allegiance was sealed by a handclasp . Because of
Mu}aammad's scruples about contact with women , the actual administration of
the oath was left to 'Umar. Women whose degree of relationship falls within the
forbidden degrees of marriage (dhat mahram ) are considered to be part of a man's
extended family, and therefore he and they may mix more freely than may a man
and an unrelated woman.

[[p 209]]
x84 The Victory of Islam

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq--Aban b. $A-
           lib (as one scholar informed him ): The women's oath of allegiance
           took place in two ways . A vessel containing water would be set
           before the Messenger of God. When he proposed the oath to them
           and they took it, he dipped his hand in the vessel and took it out;
           then the women dipped their hands in it. Later, he would propose
           the oath to them; and when they accepted his conditions, he
           would say, "Go, for I have accepted your oath of allegiance"-and
           that was all he did.

             According to al-Wagidi: In this year Khirash b. Umayyah al-
           Ka'bi killed Junaydib b. al-Adla' al-Hudhali (his name, according
           to Ibn Ishaq, was Ibn al-Athwa' al-Hudhali).753 KhirAsh killed
           Junaydib because of a blood feud that had occurred during the
           Time of Ignorance . The Prophet said: "Khirash is murderous!
           Khirash is murderous ! "-thus reproaching him. The Prophet
           commanded [the tribe of I Khuza'ah to pay blood money for the
           slain man.

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
           Muhammad b. Ja'far b. al-Zubayr (Muhammad b. Ishaq said, "I
           know nothing of the latter except that he transmitted traditions to
l16451 me from 'Urwah b. al-Zubayr" ), who said:754 $afwan b. Umayyah
            left for Juddah to set sail from there to Yemen. Umayr b. Wahb
            said: "Prophet of God, $afwan b. Umayyah, the lord of his peo-
            ple,755 has left fleeing from you to hurl himself into the sea.
            Therefore-may God grant you peace-give him a promise of

                  753. IH, IV, 414- r6, gives two variants of the name: first (in the main text of Ibn
               Ishaq), lbn al-Athwa', and then (in a note by lbn Hisham ) Ibn al-Akwa'. Parallel: W,

               11, 843-46.
                754. The story, which is included to illustrate Muhammad 's forbearance and

             mildness, depends on one's knowing something of the past history of two promi-
             nent leaders of Quraysh. In A.H. a, 'Umayr b. Wahb al-Jumahi, whose son Wahb had
             been captured by the Muslims at the Battle of Badr, went to Medina to assassinate
             Muhammad with support from his cousin $afwan b. Umayyah al-JumabI (who
             agreed to support 'Umayr's family if the attempt came to grief; cf. al-Tabari, I,
             1352- 54). 'Umayr was so impressed by Mubammad 's foreknowledge of his inten-
             tions that he converted to Islam on the spot and returned to Mecca to cause
             difficulties for the pagans . $afwan, on the other hand, remained a pagan, com-
             manded a Meccan contingent at the Battle of Uhud in A.H. 3 (cf. Watt and
             McDonald, The Foundation, 105-7 (1,1384-86]), and later went out of his way to
             purchase a captive Muslim and have him kille d to avenge his father, Umayyah b.
             IChalaf, who had been killed at Badr (cf. ibid., pp. 144, 147 11, 1433, 14371).

                  755. I.e., the Band Jumab clan of Quraysh.

[[p 210]]
The Events of the Year 8 185

safety!" "He shall be safe," replied the Prophet. 'Umayr said,
"Messenger of God, give me something whereby he may know
your promise of safety." So he gave 'Umayr the turban he had been
wearing when he entered Mecca. 'Umayr set out with it and, hav-
ing overtaken $afwan as he was about to set sail at Juddah, said to
him: "$afwan, may my father and mother be your ransom! I beg
you for God's sake not to destroy yourself. Here is a promise of
safety from the Messenger of God which I have brought to you!"
$afwan said: "Woe to you! Go away, and do not talk to me!"
'Umayr said: "$afwan, may my father and mother be your ransom!
The most excellent of men, the most righteous, the most forbear-
ing, and best of them is the son of your paternal aunt.756 His
strength is your strength, his honor your honor, and his dominion
your dominion." $afwan said, "I am in mortal fear of him."
'Umayr said, "He is too forbearing and generous for that." So
'Umayr brought $afwin back with him and came before the Mes-
senger of God with him. $afwan said, "This man asserted that you
have given me a promise of safety." "He spoke truly," said the
Messenger of God. $afwan said, "Give me two months to decide
what to do." He replied, "You have four months to decide about
it. "

   According to Ibis IIumayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-al-Zuhri:
Umm Hakim bt. al-Hirith b. Hisham (the wife of 'Ikrimah b. Abi
Jahl) and Fakhitah bt. al-Walid (the wife of $afwan b. Umayyah)
became Muslims. Umm Hakim asked the Messenger of God to
grant a promise of safety to 'Ikrimah b. AN Jahl, and he did so. She J16461
then joined 'Ikrimah in Yemen and brought him back. When
'Ikrimah and $afwan became Muslims, the Messenger of God con-
firmed the two women as wives of the two men as they had been
originally.

  According to In Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq:
When the Messenger of God entered Mecca, Hubayrah b. Abi
Wahb al-Makhzumi and 'Abdallah b. al-Ziba'ri al-Sahmi fled to
Najran.757

   756. IH, IV, 418: "your paternal uncle."
  757. Najran, near the northern border of Yemen, is about r8o miles south of
Mecca.

[[p 211]]
i86 The Victory of Islam

[16471     According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Mul}ammad b. Isllaq-
        Sa'id b. 'Abd al-Rahman b. Hassan b. Thabit al-Angari, who said:
        I iassan [b. Thabit) let fly a single verse, no more, against 'Abdallah
        b. al-Ziba'ra in Najran:758

        May you never be deprived of a man whose hatred has made
             you inhabit
             Najran in a life that is scanty and base!

        When Ibn al-Ziba'ra learned of this, he returned to the Messenger
        of God. He said when he became a Muslim:

        O Messenger of the King, my tongue
             shall repair what I rent when I was perishing;

        When I was trying to outstrip Satan in the way of the wind759-
             and whoever turns aside with Satan shall perish.

        My flesh and my bones have believed in my Lord,
             and my soul is witness that you are the warner.

        I will restrain from you-there is a clan
             descended from Lu'ayy-all of them are in error.760

        As for Hubayrah b. Abi Wahb, he stayed there as an unbeliever.
        When he learned that his wife, Umm Hani' bt. Abi Talib (her given
        name was Hind), had become a Muslim, he said:761

        Does Hind miss you? or is she far from asking about you?
             Such is absence-her ties and [then] her turning away.

          According to Ibn I iumayd-Salamah-Ibn Isliaq, who said: The
        total number of Muslims present at the conquest of Mecca was
        I o,ooo. There were 400 of the Banu Ghifar, 400 from Aslam, 1,003
        from Muzaynah, 700 from the Banu Sulaym, and 1,400 from

           758. The verse occurs in IH, IV, 418 (tr. Guillaume, 556). See Diwdn of iiassdn b.

        Thdbit, I, 140-41, and II, 214. Guillaume, noting that the version in the Diwdn
        consists of three verses, comments , "It looks almost as though IIassin's grandson
        knew that they (viz. the extra two verses ] had been grafted on to Hassin's line and
        resented the impertinence."

           759. Variant: " in the way of error."
          760. The text of the verse appears to be corrupt. The parallel in IH, IV, 419, reads:
        "I will drive away from you there a clan descended from Lu'ayy, all of whom are in
        error." Lu'ayy was an ancestor of most of the clans of Quraysh.
           761. The line is the beginning of a longer poem, seven lines of which are quoted
        by W, II, 849, and eleven lines by Ill, IV, 420-21 (tr. Guillaume, 557).

[[p 212]]
The Events of the Year 8 187

Juhaynah; the remainder were from Quraysh, the Angar and their
allies, and groups of Arabs from the Band Tamim, Qays, and Asad.

    According to al-Wagidi: In this year the Messenger of God mar-
ried Mulaykah bt. Dawud al-Laythiyyah. One of the Prophet's
wives came to Mulaykah and said to her, "Are you not ashamed to
marry a man who killed your father?" She therefore "took refuge
[in God]" from him.762 She was beautiful and young. The Mes-
senger of God separated from her. He had killed her father the day
of the conquest of Mecca.

              The Destruction of Idolatrous Shrines

In this year, five nights before the end of Ramadan, KhAlid b. al- [1648)
Walid destroyed al-'Uzza in the lowland of Nakhlah.763 Al-'Uzza
was an idol of the Band Shayban, a subdivision of Sulaym, allies of
the Banu HAshim. The Band Asad b. 'Abd al-'Uzza used to say it
was their idol. Khalid set out for it, and then he said, "I have
destroyed it." [The Messenger of God) said, "Did you see any-
thing?" "No," said Khalid. "Then," he said, "go back and destroy
it." So Khalid returned to the idol, destroyed its temple, and broke
the idol. The keeper began saying, "Rage, O 'Uzza, with one of thy
fits of rage !"-whereupon a naked, wailing Ethiopian woman
came out before him. Khalid killed her and took the jewels that
were on her. Then he went to the Messenger of God and gave him
a report of what had happened. "That was al-'Uzza," he said, "and
al-'Uzza will never be worshiped [ again)."

   According to Ibn Iiumayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq, who said:764
The Messenger of God sent Khalid b. al-Walid to [deal with]
al-`Uzza, who was at Nakhlah. She was a temple venerated by the
tribes of Quraysh, Kinanah, and all Mudar.765 Her keepers were of

  762. Arabic: ista'ddhat minhu . This apparently alludes to pre-Islamic practice
whereby a wife could repudiate her husband before the consummation of marriage
by pronouncing the words a'ddhu billdhi minka, "I seek refuge with God from
you." For a discussion of three instances reported by Ibn Sa 'd in which arranged
tribal marriages were terminated by this formula, see Stowasser, Women in the
Qur'an, Traditions, and Interpretation, 111-12.

  763. Parallel: W, 111, 873-74. 25 Ramadan of A.H. 8 fell on r6 January 630.
Nakhlah is close to Mecca , on the way to al-Ti'if. On the cult of the goddess
al-'Uzza, see Ell, s .v. al-Uzza; Fahd, Pantheon, 163-82.

   764. Parallel: IH, TV, 436-37 (tr. Guillaume, 565).
   765. See note 257, above.

[[p 213]]
188 The Victory of Islam

          the Banu Shayban, a division of the Banu Sulaym, allies of the
          Banu Hashim. When the master of the temple heard that Khalid
          was coming to deal with al-'Uzza, he hung his sword on her and
          climbed the mountain near which al-'Uzza was located. As he
          went up he said:

          O Uzza, attack with an attack that hits no unvital place,
                against Khalid! Throw down thy veil, and gird up thy train!

          O Uzza, if today thou wilt not slay KhAlid,
                bear a swift punishment, or become a Christian!

          Having reached al-'Uzza, Khalid destroyed her and returned to the
          Messenger of God.

             According to al-Wagidi:766 In this year [the idol] Suwa' was
           destroyed.767 He was at Ruhal768 and belonged to [the tribe of]
l16491 Hudhayl. He was a stone. The person who destroyed it was 'Amr
          b. al-'As. When he reached the idol, the keeper asked him, "What
           do you want?" 'Amr replied, "To destroy Suwa'." The keeper said,
           "You cannot destroy him." 'Amr b. al-'AS said to him, "You are
           still in falsehood." 'Amr destroyed him but found nothing in his
           treasury. Then 'Amr said to the keeper, "What do you think?" He
           replied, "I have become a Muslim, by God."

             In this year [the idol] Manat was destroyed by Sa'd b. Zayd al-
           Ashhall at al-Mushallal.769 It belonged to [the tribes of ] al-Aws
           and al-Khazraj.

                    The Expedition against the Banu jadhimah

           In this year the expedition of Khalid b. al-Walid against the Banu
           Jadhimah took place.770 The following is an account of events
           concerning him and them according to Ibn Humayd- Salamah-
           Muhammad b. Ishaq, who said:771 The Messenger of God had sent

                  766. Parallel : W, II, 870.
                767. On the cult of the Suwa', see Fahd, Panthaon, 155-56.
                768. Ruhal was a place three nights from Mecca in the direction of Medina, see
             Yaqut, Mujam al-buldan,1V, 341.
                769. On al-Mushallal see note boo, above. Manat, one of the ancient deities of
             the Semitic pantheon, was a goddess of destiny and fate. See EP, s.v. Manat, Fahd,
             Pantheon, 123-28.
                770. See E72, s.v. Djadhima b. 'Amin.
                  771. Parallels: W, III, 875-84i IH, IV, 428-36 ( tr. Guillaume, 56t-65).

[[p 214]]
The Events of the Year 8 189

out detachments to the areas around Mecca to summon people to
God; he did not command the detachments to fight. One of those
whom he sent out was Khalid b. al-Walid, whom he commanded
to travel through the lowlands of Tihamah to summon people; he
did not send Khalid to fight. Khalid, however, mistreated the Banu
Jadhimah and killed some of them.

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-
Hakim b. I iakim b. 'Abbad b. liunayf 772-Abu Ja'far Muhammad
b. 'Ali b. Iiusayn,773 who said: After he conquered Mecca, the
Messenger of God sent out Khalid b. al-Walid to summon people;
he did not send him to fight. With him were Arabs of the tribes of
Sulaym, Mudlij, and other tribes . They halted at al-Ghumayga', a
watering place of the Band Jadhimah b. 'Amir b. 'Abd Manat b.
Kinanah, by their main body. Now the Banu Jadhimah in the Time [165o]
of Ignorance had killed 'Awf b. 'Abd 'Awf (the father of 'Abd al-
Rahman b. 'Awf) and al-Fakih b. al-Mughirah.774 The two had
come from Yemen as merchants; when they had halted among the
Band Jadhimah, the latter had killed them and taken their posses-
sions. When Islam came and the Messenger of God sent out Khalid
b. al-Walid, Khalid traveled and halted at that watering place.
When the Banu Jadhimah saw him, they took up their weapons.
Khalid said to them, "Put down your weapons, for the people have
become Muslims."

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Muhammad b. Ishaq-a -
certain scholar-a man from the Banu Jadhimah, who said: When
Khalid commanded us to put down our weapons, one of our men,
named Jahdam, said: "Alas for you, Banu Jadhimah! It is Khalid.
By God, after you lay down your weapons, it will be nothing but
leather manacles, and after leather manacles it will be nothing but
the smiting of necks. By God, I will never lay down my weapon!"
Some of his fellow tribesmen took him and said: "Jahdam, do you

   772. Hakim b. Hakim b . 'Abbad b. Hunayf al-Anyari al-Awsi is listed without
dates in In Hajar, Tahdhib, 448-49.

   773. Abu Ja'far Muhammad b. 'Ali b. Husayn b . 'Ali b. Abi Tilib, surnamed
Muhammad al-Bagir, was the fifth imam of the Shi 'ah. He was born in 57/676 and
died between 114/732 and 126/743. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 350-52; Momen,
Introduction to Shi'i Islam, 37-38.

  774. 'Abd al-Rabman b. 'Awf was a Meccan who became a Muslim , emigrated to
Medina, and fought at Badr. See al-Tabarl , I, 1325 -27. Al-Fakih b. al-Mughirah, as
mentioned below, was the paternal uncle of Khilid b. al-Walid.

[[p 215]]
Igo The Victory of Islam

          want to cause our blood to be shed? The people have become
          Muslims. The war has ended, and the people are at peace." The
          people did not desist from him until they had taken away his
          weapon and had laid down their weapons because of what Khalid

          had said.
             After the Banu Jadhimah had laid down their weapons, Khalid

          ordered that their hands should be tied behind their backs, then he
          put them to the sword, killing some of them. When the news
          reached the Messenger of God, he raised his hands to heaven and
           said, "0 God, I declare to Thee that I am innocent of what Khalid
          b. al-Walid has done." Then he summoned 'Ali b. Abi Talib and
           said, "'Ali, go out to these people, look into what has happened to
           them, and make an end to the ways of the Time of Ignorance." 'All
           set out and came to them, with him he had money that the Mes-
[ r 6 5 I ] senger of God had sent with him. He paid the Banu Jadhimah
          blood money and compensation for their property that had been
           taken, down to a dog's water bowl; there remained no life or prop-
           erty for which he did not pay compensation . Because he had some
          money left over, 'Ali said to them when he finished, "Do any of
          you still have lives or property for which you have not been com-
          pensated?" "No," they replied. He said, "Then I give you the re-
          mainder of this money as a precaution for the Messenger of God
          with regard to what he does not know and you do not know."
          Having done this, he returned to the Messenger of God and gave
          him a report. "You have done right and well," he said. Then the
           Messenger of God turned toward the qiblah, standing and raising
           his hands until the whiteness under his shoulders could be seen,
           saying three times, "0 God, I declare to Thee that I am innocent of
           what Khalid b. al-Walid has done."

            According to Ibn Isliaq: Someone who excuses Khalid said that
          Khalid said: "I did not fight until 'Abdallah b. I ludhafah al-Sahmi
           commanded me to do so. He said, 'The Messenger of God has
           commanded you to kill them775 because of their resistance to
           Islam. ' 11

             When they laid down their weapons, Jabdam, seeing what
           Khalid was doing to the Banu Jadhimah, said to them: "Band Ja-
           dhimah, all is lost! I warned you of what you have fallen into."

                  775• The parallel in IH, IV, 430 ( tr. Guillaume, 562), reads "to fight them."

[[p 216]]
The Events of the Year 8 191

   According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Ishaq-'Abdallah b.                                  [1652]
Abi Salamah, 76 who said: According to the report that I have
received, an exchange took place over this between Khalid b. al-
Walid and 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Awf. 'Abd al-Rahman said to
Khalid, "You acted in the time of Islam according to the ways of
the Time of Ignorance." Khalid replied, "I only took vengeance for
your father." 'Abd al-Raliman b. 'Awf said: "You are lying. I have
already killed my father's murderer. You only took vengeance for
your paternal uncle, al-Fakih b. al-Mughirah." This developed
into a quarrel between them. When it was reported to the Mes-
senger of God, he said: "Take it easy, Khalid. Leave my compan-
ions alone; for, by God, though you had a mountain of gold the size
of Ul}ud and spent it for the sake of God, you would in no wise
become the equal of one of my companions."

   According to Said b. Yahya al-Umawi-his father (Yahya b.
Sa'id]; and according to Ibn IIumayd-Salamah; both accounts
coming from Ibn Ishaq--Ya'qub b. 'Utbah b. al-Mughirah b. al-
Akhnas b. Shariq-Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri-Ibn 'Abdallah b. Abi
IIadrad al-Aslami-his father, 'Abdallah b. Abi Hadrad, who said:
I was among Khalid's horsemen that day. One of their young
men-he was among the prisoners , his hands were tied to his neck
with a rope, and some women were gathered not far from him-
said to me, "Young man!" "Yes," I said. He said: "Will you take
hold of this rope and lead me by it to these women , so that I can
entrust them with a needful matter of business? Then you can
bring me back to do as you all please with me." I said, "By God,
what you have asked is a small thing." I took hold of his rope and
led him by it until I had brought him to stand near them. He said,
"Farewell, ]Uubayshah, as life runs out!"77

Tell me: when I sought you and found you [1653]
      at Ilalyah,778 or found you at al-Khawaniq,

Was it not right for a lover to be rewarded

   776. 'Abdallah b. Abi Salamah al-Majishnn al -Taymi, a mawla of the al-
Munkadir family, died in 106/724-25. See Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 243.

  777. The poem, with variants, may also be found in W, III, 879; IH, IV, 433-34;
and Ibn Sa'd, 7'abagat, II, 107. In the first line, "you" )plural) refers to the tribe of
the beloved.

   778. I Ialyah is a valley in Tihamah. Its upper part belonged to Hudhayl, its lower

part to Kinanah. Cf. Yagdt, Mu'jam al-buldan, III, 331.

[[p 217]]
192 The Victory of Islam

                who tasked himself to travel in the nights and in the
                noonday heat?
           No guilt was mine when I said, our people being together,
                "Requite with affection before some misfortune occurs!"
           Requite with affection before remoteness becomes great;
                before the commander takes the departing loved one far
                away.
           For I have divulged no secret lodged with me,
                neither has anything pleased my eye after your face.
           Now the misfortune that has befallen the people occupies my
                mind,
                and there is no memory except that of a tender lover.

           She replied, "And you-may you be made to live ten and seven
           years uninterrupted and eight right after them!" Then I took him
           away. He was brought forward and beheaded.

             According to Ibn I Iumayd-Salamah-Ibn Isla-Abu Firas b.
           Abi Sunbulah al-Aslami-some of the old men [of the Banu
           Aslam]-some who were present there, who said: She went up to
           him when he was beheaded, and she threw herself down on him
           and kept kissing him until she died beside him.

             According to Ibn Humayd-Salamah-Ibn Isliaq-al-Zuhri-
           'Ubaydallah b. 'Abdallah b. 'Utbah b. Masud, who said: The Mes-
[ r 6 S 4] senger of God stayed in Mecca af ter its conquest for fifteen nights,
           shortening the prayers.779

             According to Ibn Ishaq: The conquest of Mecca took place ten
           nights before the end of the month of Ramadan in the year 8.780

                779. Arabic: yaq$uru a1-$a1ah, normally applied to the abbreviation of prayers
             allowed when one is on a journey (cf. Lane, Lexicon, VII, 25331. The implication is
             that Mubammad did not consider his residence in Mecca permanent and intended
             to return to Medina.

                  780. I.e., 20 Ramadan (ri January 630).

[[p 218]]
1►

            Bibliography of Cited Works

                            9

           I. Primary Sources: Texts and Translations
'Abdallah b . Rawahah. Diwan 'Abdalldh b. Rawdhah al-An$dri al-

      KhazrajL Edited by Hasan Muhammad Bajurah . Cairo, 1972.
Aghani. See al-I§bahani.
al-Bukhari, Muhammad b. Ismail. $aliih al-Bukhdri. 9 vols. Bulaq,1311-

       12/1893-94.
al-Dhahabi. A1-Moschtabih [i.e., al-Mushtabihj. Edited by P. de Jong.

      Leiden, 1881.
          Tadhkirat a]-]huffaZ. 4 vols. Hyderabad, 1955-58.

Hassan b. Thabit. Diwan of Hassan ibn Thdbit. Edited by Walid N.
      'Arafat. 2 vols. London, 1971.

In al-Athir, Izz al-Din. Kitab al-kamil fi al-ta 'rikh. Edited by C. J.
     Tomberg. 12 vols. Leiden, 1870-71.

In Hajar al-'Asgalani, Ahmad b. 'Ali. a1-IIabah ft tamyiz a1-$aliabah.
     Edited by 'Ali Muhammad al-Bijawi . 8 vols. Cairo, [19701.
          Tahdhib al-tahdhib. 12 vols. Hyderabad, 1325 -27/1907-9.

In HishAm, Abu Muhammad b.'Abd al-Malik . Sirat Rasul Allah. Edited
      by Muglafa al-Sagga, Ibrahim al-AbyArl, and 'Abd al-Haft; Shalabi. 4
      vols. Cairo, 1936. Reprinted Beirut, n.d. Translated by A. Guillaume
      as The Life of Muhammad: A Translation of... Sirat Rasul Allah.
      London, 1955 . Reprinted Karachi, 1967.

In Man;ur, Jamal al-Din Abu al-Fa it Muhammad b. Mukarram al-
      Anyari. Lisdn al-'arab. 6 vols. Cairo, 1981.

Ibn Sa'd, Abu'Abdallih Muhammad . Kitab al-Iabagat a]-kabir. Edited by
     Eduard Sachau . 9 vols. Leiden, 1904 -40. Reprinted Beirut, 1978.

al-I$bahani, Abu al-Faraj 'Ali b. al-Husayn. Kitab al-aghdnf. Edited by
      Ibrahim al-Abyari. 31 vols. Cairo, 1969.

[[p 219]]
194 Bibliography of Cited Works

al-Khalib al-Baghdidi, Abu Bakr Ahmad b. 'Ali. Ta'rikh Baghdad. i vols.
     Cairo, 1931.

Lisan. See Ibn Manpur.
al-Maydini, Abu al-Fa 4l Ahmad b. Muhammad. Majma' amthal al-'Arab.

      Cairo, 1959 . Translated by G. W. Freytag as Arabum Proverbia. 2
      vols. Bonn, 1838-43.
Muslim b. al-Hajjij. $alu1.2 Muslim . Edited by Muhammad Fuld al-Bagi. 5

      vols. Cairo, 1374-75/1955-56.
Qur'an. Verses are numbered according to the Egyptian national edition.

     The translation, with modifications, is based on A. J. Arberry, The
     Koran interpreted (London, 1955).
al-Samhudi, 'Ali b. 'Abdallah. Khula$at al-wafa' bi-akhbar dar al-
     mu$Jafa . Damascus, 1392/1972.
al-Tabari, Abu Ja'far Muhammad b. Jarir. Jami' al-bayan fi tafsir al-
     qur'an. 30 vols. Bulaq, 1323/ 1905 . Reprinted Beirut, 1398/1978.

         Ta'rikh al-rusul wa-al-mulnk. Edited by M. J. de Goeje et al. under
     the title Annales quos scripsit Abu Djafar... at-Tabari. 13 vols. and 2
     vols. Indices and Introductio, glossarium, addenda et emendanda.
     Leiden, 1879-1901. Also edited by Muhammad Abu al-Fa511 Ibrahim.
     zo vols. Cairo, 1960-69.
al-Wagidi, Muhammad b. 'Umar. Kitab al-maghazi. Edited by Marsden
      Jones. 3 vols. London, 1966.
Yaqut, Abu'Abdallih Yaqut b. 'Abdallah al- I lamawi al-Rumi. Mu'jam al-
      buldan. Edited by Muhammad Amin al-Khiniji and Ahmad b. al-
      Amin al-Shangili. 8 vols. Cairo, 1323/1906.
al-Zamakhshari, Jar Allah Abu al-Qasim Mahmud b. 'Umar. Asas al-
     balaghah. Beirut, 1399/1979.

            H. Secondary Sources and Reference Works

Abbott, Nabia. Aishah the Beloved of Muhammad. Chicago, 1942.
Arafat, W. "A Controversial Incident and the Related Poem in the Life of

      Hassan b. Thibit." BSOAS 17 (1955)' 197-205 .
Bell, Richard. Bell's Introduction to the Qur'an. Revised and enlarged by

     W. Montgomery Watt . Edinburgh, 1970.
Bellamy, James A. " Some Proposed Emendations to the Text of the

      Koran." Journal of the American Oriental Society 113 ( 1993): 562-

      73.
Blach6re, R6gis, et al. Dictionnaire arabe-franpais-anglais. 4 vols. Paris,

      1964-.
Bravmann, M. M. The Spiritual Background of Early Islam: Studies in

      Ancient Arab Concepts. Leiden, 1972.

[[p 220]]
Bibliography of Cited Works 195

Burton, John. An Introduction to the Hadith. Edinburgh, 1994.
The Cambridge History of Iran. Vol. III/1. The Seleucid, Parthian, and

      Sasanian Periods. Edited by Ehsan Yarshater . Cambridge, 1983.
Christensen, Arthur. L'Iran sous les Sassanides. 2nd edition.

      Copenhagen, 1944.
Dozy, R.P.A. Supplement aux dictionnaires arabes . 2 vols. Leiden,1881.

      Reprinted Beirut, 1968.
Duri, A. A. The Rise of Historical Writing among the Arabs. Edited and

      translated by Lawrence I. Conrad. Princeton , N.J., 1983.
Encyclopaedia of Islam. 1st edition . 4 vols. and Supplement . Leiden,

       1913-42.
Encyclopaedia of Islam . znd edition. 8 vols. and Supplement . Leiden,

      1960-.
Fahd, Toufic. Le pantheon de I'Arabie centrale a la veille de l'hegire.

      Paris, 1968.
Freytag, G. W. Arabum Proverbia. See al-Maydani in Section I.
Goldziher, Ignaz. Abhandlungen zur arabischen Philologle . 2 vols.

     Leiden, 1896-99.
            Muslim Studies. Translation of Muhammedanische Studien

      [1889 -9ol. Edited by S. M. Stern. Vol. I, Albany, N.Y., 1967. Vol IT,
      Chicago, 1971.
von Grunebaum, Gustav E. Muhammadan Festivals. Chicago, 1951. Re-
      printed London, 1976.
Hamidullah, Muhammad. The Battlefields of the Prophet Muhammad.
     Revised edition. Hyderabad, 1392/1973.
Lane, Edward William. An Arabic-English Lexicon. London, 1863-93.
      Reprinted Beirut, 1968.
Le Strange, G. Palestine under the Moslems . London, 1890.
Lings, Martin. Muhammad: His Life Based on the Earliest Sources. New
      York, 1983.
Momen, Moojan. An Introduction to Shi'i Islam: The History and
      Doctrines of Twelver Shi'ism. New Haven, Conn., 1985.
Ostrogorsky, Georg. History of the Byzantine State. Translated by Joan
     Hussey. Revised edition. New Brunswick, N.j., 1969.
Payne Smith, R. A Compendious Syriac Dictionary. Oxford, 1903.
Peters, Francis E. The Hajj: The Muslim Pilgrimage to Mecca and the
     Holy Places. Princeton, N.J., 1994.
Poonawala, Ismail . The Last Years of the Prophet: The Formation of the
      State. Vol. 9 of The History of a]-Tabari. Albany, N.Y., 1990.
Reckendorf, H. Arabische Syntax. Heidelberg, 1921.
Rosenthal, Franz. General Introduction and From the Creation to the
     Flood. Vol. i of The History of al-Tabari. Albany, N.Y., 1989.

[[p 221]]
196 Bibliography of Cited Works

Schacht, Joseph. An Introduction to Islamic Law. Oxford, 1964.
         The Origins of Muhammadan jurisprudence. Oxford, 195o.

Sezgin, Fuat. Geschichte des arabischen Schrifttums. Vol. 1. Qur'an-
      wissenschaften, lIadit, Geschichte, Fiqh, Dogmatik, Mystik bis ca.
      43o H. Leiden, 1967. Vol. 2. Poesie bis ca. 43o H. Leiden, 1975.

Spellberg, D. A. Politics, Gender, and the Islamic Past: The Legacy of
     'A'isha bint Abi Bakr. New York, 1994.

Stowasser, Barbara Freyer . Women in the Qur'an, Traditions, and Inter-
     pretation. New York and Oxford, 1994.

Watt, W. Montgomery. "His Name is Ahmad." Muslim World 43 (1953):

        110-17.

         Muhammad at Mecca. Oxford, 1953.
          Muhammad at Medina. Oxford, 1956. Reprinted Karachi, 1981.
          and M. V. McDonald. The Foundation of the Community:
     Muhammad at al-Madina. Vol. 7 of The History of al-TabarL. Al-
     bany, N.Y., 1987.
Wensinck, A. J. Concordance et indices de la tradition musulmane. 8
      vols. Leiden, 1936-88.
Wright, W. A Grammar of the Arabic Language. 3rd edition. Cambridge,

      1896-98 . Reprinted, 1967.
Wf stenfeld, F., and E. Mahler. Vergleichungs-Tabellen der muham-

      medanischen and christlichen Zeitrechnung . Leipzig, 1926 . Arabic
      translation by A. M. Maguedj Cairo, 1980.

[[p 222]]
e

Index

  9

The index contains all names of persons, places, tribes, and other groups,
as well as technical terms that occurin the introduction and the text (but
only selected items from the footnotes). A separate index of Qur'anic
passages follows the general index.

   Names of places have been marked [P(, names of tribes (TI, and names
of persons who appear only in chains of transmission (isnads)'.

    The definite article al-, the abbreviations b. (ibn, son of) and bt. (bint,
daughter of), and everything in parentheses are disregarded for the pur-

poses of alphabetization. Where a name occurs in both the text and the
footnotes on the same page, only the page number is given.

                     A                   'Abd al-Hamid b. Bayin' 83
                                         Abd al-Malik b . Marwin (caliph) 104,
a1- Abalit (T) 8o
                                               174
Aban (b. Yazid) a1= Attir' 174           'Abd Manaf (of Quraysh), Banu (T) 172
AbAn b. Said b. al-'Ag 82
Aban b. $alih' 136, 184                  'Abd al-Qays, Banu (T) 99
Abayah b. Malik 156
'Abbad b. 'Abdallih b . al-Zubayr* 22,   'Abd al-Rahman b. Abza' 71
                                         'Abd a1-Rahman b. 'Amr b. Sa'd b.
      58, 156
Abbad b. Bishr b . Waqsh b. Zughbah           Mu'adh' 34
                                         'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Awf 87 , 95, 189,
     b. Za'uri al-Ashhali 49, 52
'Abbad b. Julanda al-Azdi Ioo, 142               191
al-'Abbas b. 'Abd al -Muttalib xiii,
                                         'Abd al-Rahman b. Hassan b . Thibit
     127-28, 136, ,68, 171-74
al-'Abbas b. 'Abdallih b. Ma'bad b.            66, 131
                                         'Abd al-Rahman b. Ham b. Abi Wahb
     al-'Abbas b. 'Abd al-Muttalib' r68
Abd al-Ashhal (of al-Aws), Banu (T)            97
                                         'Abd al-Rahman b . 'Uyaynah 44, 46
     15,                                 'Abd al-Rahman b . Yazid b. Jiriyah 95
                                         'Abd al-Rahman b. Zayd' 4
                                         'Abd al-$amad b . 'Abd al-Warith' 174

[[p 223]]
198  Index

Abd b. Tha'labah, Band (T], raid on                 178, 179
                                              'Abdallah b. Sahl b. 'Abd al- Rahman b.
      132, 133
Abd al-Wahid b. Abi 'Awn'; see Ibn                 Sahl (Abu Layla) al-II Iarithi al-
                                                   Angari' i9, 1 i 8
     Abi `Awn                                 'Abdallah b. Sahl al-l larithl 129
'Abd al-Wahid b. I;iamzah* 67                 'Abdallah b. Suhayl b. 'Amr 87
'Abd al-Warith b. 'Abd al-$amad b.            'Abdallah b. Ubayy b. Saldl xi, 33, 52-

     'Abd al-Warith' 174                           55, 6r
'Abdallah b.'Abbas b.'Abd al-Muttalib'        'Abdallah b.'Umar b. al-Khaflab' 137
                                              'Abdallah b. Wahb ' 4, 83,147
     70,89,100,104,134,135,136,168,           'Abdallah b. al-Ziba'ra al-Sahmi 185-86
                                              Abna' (Persian residents of Yemen) (T]
       171
                                                      114
'Abdallah b. 'Abdallah b. Ubayy b. Salul
                                              Abrahah (slave girl of Negus) io9-io
      54-55                                   al-Abtah (P] 181

'Abdallah b. Abi Awfa* 70                     Abu'Amir al-'Agadi' 44, 69, 79, 83, 97
                                              Abu'Ammar al-Wa'ili 7
'Abdallah b. Abi Bakr b. Muhammad b.          Abu al-'A, b. al-Rabe 93-94, 131
                                              Abd'Ayyash) see'Ubayd b. Zayd
      'Amrb. l;Iazm' 6, 43, 51, 58, 72, 78,   Abd Ayyub Khalid b. Zayd 63-64
      82, 96, 111,117,128, 129, 132,135,      Abu Bakr b. Abi Quhafah 37, 40, 6o,

      138,139, 146,155,158 ,159,177                 62-64, 76,85 , 87, 97,119, 120,
 Abdallah b. Abi Hadrad al-Aslami
                                                     130,131 , 146,
      149-51,191                              Abu Barzah al-Aslami 18o
'Abdallah b. Abi Najih' 89, 136, 176,         Abu Bafir'Utbah b. Asid b. Jariyah 9o-

      177                                            91
'Abdallah b. Abi Salamah` 191                 Abu Dawud (Sulayman b. Dawud b. al-
'Abdallah b. Abi Umayyah b. al-
                                                    Jarud al-TayalisiJ' 70
      Mughirah 168-69                         Abu al-Emil (kunyah of al-'Abbas b.'Abd
 Abdallah b.'Amir al-Aslami' i
'Abdallahb.'Amrb.'Awfal-Muzani' zo                  al-Mullalib, q.v.)127,172,174
 Abdallah b. Buraydah al-Aslami' i 19,        Abu Firas b. Abi Sunbulah al-Aslami'

      Ito                                            192
 Abdallah b. al-Hasan' 121                    Abu Han;alah (kunyah of Abu Sufyan
'Abdallah b. Hudhafah b. Qays b. 'Adi
                                                    b. Harb, q.v.) 172
     b. Sa'd al-Sahmi 98, 1I0-1 I, 19o        Abu Hurayrah' 13,124
'Abdallah b. Idris' 104                       Abu Ishaq ('Amr b. 'Abdallah al-
'Abdallah b. Ja'farb . AbiTalib 159
'Abdallah b. Ja'far al-Zuhri' 95,133                Hamdanl)' 54, 88
'Abdallah b. Khatal (of Band Taym b.          Abu Ja'far'r see al-Tabari
                                               Abu ja'far Muhammad b. 'Ali b. Hu-
      Ghalib)179,180
'Abdallah b. Mas'adah b. Ilakamah b.                 sayn' 189
                                              Abu Jahl ('Amr b. Hisham b. al-
      Malik b. Badr al-Fazarl 96
'Abdallah b. ( al-)Mubarak ' 69, 74, 88             Mughirah) 89
'Abdallah b. Nifi'137                         Abu Jahm b. Hudhafah b. Ghanim al-
 'Abdallah b. Rabah al-An^ari' 15 8
'Abdallah b. Rawahah (of Band al-                   Khuza'i 92
                                              Abu jamrah al-Quba'i' 148
       Harith b. al-Khazraj ) xviii, 15, 66,   Abu Jandal b. Suhayl b. 'Amr 87, 91
                                               Abu Kabshah, son of (name for Muham-
       129,130, 135,152-58
'Abdallah b. Sa'd b. Abi Sarh b.

      Ilubayb b. Jadhimah b. Nagr b.
      Malik b.111sl b.'Amir b. Lu'ayy

[[p 224]]
Index                                      199

       mad) 103                              Adi b. Ka'b (of Quraysh ), Band (T] 82,
 Abu Kurayb (Muhammad b. al-Ala' b.                172

       Kurayb)' xx, 54, I2o,171              Adi b. al-Najjar, Band [T] 38
 Abu Layla' , see'Abdallah b. Sahi b.       adoption xiii, a n. 5, 3

       'Abd al-Ralaman                      Ahabish [T] r3, 78, 81,176
                                            ahl al-bays (Prophet's household) io
 Abu Lubabah b. 'Abd al-Mundhir 2g,         Ahmad (name for the Prophet) io6
                                            Ahmad b. 'Abd al-Rahman' 147
        31-32                               altzab (allied clans, parties who leagued
 Abu al-Qa'ga' b.'Abdallah b. Abi
                                                 together) xiv, io,12,144, x81
       liadrad al-Aslami' x 51               A'idh (or Mu'adh) b. MA'ig b. Qays b.
 Abu al-Qasim (kunyah of Muhammad
                                                 Khaldah 49
       the Prophet, q.v.) 141
 Abu Qatadah al-llarith b . Rib'i al-       'A'ishah bt. Abi Bakr (wife of the

      AnSari 46, 47, 49, 50,149 - 51,158          Prophet) 3,19-21, 29,30, 36,39,
 Abu Rifi' (mawla of the Prophet) 121,            40,56,57, 165; lie/slander against
                                                  xii-xiii, xv-xvi, 57-67
       136-37                               a1= Ajlan (of Bali), Band (T] 15 7
 Abu Ruhm Kulthum b. Hu$ayn b.              al-Akhnas b. Shariq b. 'Amr b. Wahb al-
                                                 Thagafi 9o
      Khalaf al-Ghifari 168                 al-Akhram al-Asadi 46
 Abu Ruhm b. al-Muttalib b. Abd             akkdrun (husbandmen ), sin of 104
                                            al-'Ala' b . al-lla4rami 99, 142
      Manaf 6o
 Abu Said al-Khudri' 34                     Alexandria (P198 n. 422, 100

 Abu Salamah b. Abd al -Rahman b.           Ali b. AbiTalib 18 - 19, 28, 41,56,61-
                                                  62,80,85-88 , 95,119-21, 164-65,
       'Awf 95, I I I                             z67,176 - 77,181,190

 Abu Sinan b. Milan b. Hurthan (of          Ali b. Mujahid' 51
      Band Asad b. Khuzaymah) 40
                                           allegiance, oath of (bay'ahj 70, 82-84,
 Abu Sinan b. Wahb al-Asadi 83
                                                  109,145, 175,176, 181-84; of
 Abu Sufyan b. Harb xix, 8, 24, 26, 79,          women 38, see also women
       82, 91 , 100, 102- 4, 110, 163-65,   Algamah b . Qays al-Nakha'i* 21 n.
       168, 171 -7S, 183
                                                  104,85
Abu Sufyan b. al-Harith b. 'Abd al-         Algamah b. Wagga@ al-Laythi * 2I, 29,
      Muttalib 168-70
                                                 34, 35, 39, 40, 58
Abu Sufyan b. Said b. al-Mughirah al-      Amaj IN 43, 168
      Thagafi' 70                          al-A'mash (Sulayman b. Mihran al-

Abu Sulaymin (kunyah of Khalid b. al-           Asadi)' 70
      Walid, q.v.) 145                     Amir (uncle of Salamah b. al-Akwa')

Abu Talbah b. Sahl 66                           46, 80, 84
Abu Tumaylah (Yahya b . Waft) * x 5 6      Amin b.'Abdallih b. al-Zubayr' 159
Abu'Ubaydah b. al-Jarrah 93 , 146-48,      Amir b. a1-A ibal al-Ashja'1151
                                           'Amir b. Lu'ayy (of Quraysh), Banu (T]
      177
Abu Usamah al-Jushami 22                         18,20,75,79n. 340,84, 87,90,91,
Abu Yazid (kunyah of Suhayl b. Amr,              98,99
                                           Amir b. $a'$a'ah, Banu [T] 170, raid on
      q.v.) 178
Abu al-Zubayr (Muhammad b. Mus-                 143
                                           'Amir b. Sharahil b.'Amr al-Sha'bi' 83
     limb. Tadrus al-Asadi )' 69,148
'A4al (T) 13 n. 74, 16
Adam (first man) 1o8, 181
al-'AOa' (camel of Muhammad) 47
Adhakhir [P] 177

[[p 225]]
200  Index

'Amr b. 'Abd Wudd b. Abi Qays (of          Asid b. Sa'yah, see Usayd b. Sa'yah
                                           Agim b. Thibit b. Abi al-Aglah 94
      Banu 'Amirb. Lu'ayy) i8-19           Aim b. 'Omar b. al-Khallib 94-95
                                           Aim b.'Umarb. Qatidah ' 6, 17, 20,
Amr b. Algamah' 20, 29, 34, 39
                                                 34, 43, 49, 51 , 55, 138
Amr b. al-'A' 99, 142-47, 188              Aslam (TI 70,72,74P 117r 142# 173P 177,

Amr b. Awbir 50                                 186,192
Amr b. Awf (clan of al-Aws), Banu (T)      al-Aswad b. Razn al-Dill t6o-6i
                                           al-Aswad b. Shayban' 157
     15P 16,31                             Ali' b. Abi Rabih' 136
Amr b. Awf al-Muzani * Io                  Atikah bt. 'Abd al -Muttalib 1 68 n. 701,
Amr b. Dinar" 147-48
Amr b. al-Hirith 147,148                        169
'Amr b. Ka'b al-Ghifiri 143                Awbir 5o
                                           Awf b. 'Abd'Awf ( father of 'Abd al-
Amr b. Murrah' 70
Amr b. QurayZah, Banu (T] 37, 39                Rahmin b .'Awf)189,191
Amr b. Salim al-Khuza'i 162-63              Awf b. Abi jamilah al-A'IAbi' i 19
Amrb. Su'di al-Qura;i 32-33                'Awf b. #I-Khazraj, Band IT] 52
Amr b. Umayyah al-IJamri 98, i o8,144      al-Awe (T] xv, 15 , 33,6z, 188
                                           Aws b. Qay,;i (of Band Hirithah b. al-
Amrah bt. 'Abd al-Rahman* 58 ,
angels 26 n . 121, 27, 29, 159; see also        Harith) i6
                                           Ayyub b. Abd al-Rahman b. 'Abdallih
      Gabriel
Anger (TJ 10, 47, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 62,       b. Abi $a'gs'ah (of Bann 'Adi b. al-
                                                Najjar)' 38
      68, 74,1321 146,147,156, 158, 168,   AyyUb b. Abi Tamimah Kaysin al-
      174, 175,179, 187                         Sakhtiyani' 78
al-Agra' b. I;labis al-Tamimi 171          Azhar b.'Abd'Awf 9o
Arabian peninsula (P) xi, xviii, 130       Azzil b. Shamwil al-QuraZI 37
Arabs xvii-xviii,17-19, 6o, 65, 67, 68,
                                                                  B
      72, 76, 84, 98,101, 107, 165, 177,
                                           Babawayh112-14
      187, 1891 auxiliaries of Byzantines  Bidhin (governor of Yemen) 1 i2, I14
                                           Badr, battle of 18, 2i, 6o, 98,116677,,183
      xviii,1S3,154,156,159                Badr b. Pazirah, Banu (TI 96
 Arafah [PJ x 6i                           Bahri' IT)153
al-Arik (P1171
Arhi b. al.Agham b. Abjar (son of          al-Bal}rayn [P199
                                           Bakr b. 'Abd Manit b. KinAnah, Bann (T]
     Negus) Io9
                                                xviii-xix, 56, 86,160-63,175-77
al-'Arj (P1171                             Bakr b. Sawidah al-judhami' 148
                                           al-Balidhuri xxii
Army of Commanders (jaysh al-              Bal'ajlan (T], see al-'Allan
     umard') i58                           Balhirith (T], see al-Hirith b. al-Khazraj
                                           Bali (T] 146,13 3
al-'Ay b. Will (father of'Amr b. al-A'),   Balmuglaliq (T]; see al-Muglaliq
                                           al-Balga ' [PJ 153,156
     mother of 146                         Balqayn (T] 153
Asad b. 'Abd al-' U=1 (clan of Quraysh),   al-Bari ' b. 'Azib 74, 88

     Banu (T) 98, 187
Asad b. Khuzaymah, Band (T] 40,49#

      83, 98, 107, 187
Asad b. Ubayd (of Band Hadl) 32
al-Agbagh b. 'Amr al-Kalbi (king of

     Dumat al-jandal) 95
al-A$far (Greeks), Banu (TJ 103
al-Agham b. Abjar (Negus)108-9
Ashja' (T) 8

[[p 226]]
Index                                      2,01

 Barirah (slave girl) 62                                           D
 Bashir b. Muhammad b. 'Abdallah b.
                                            Qagha;ir( bishop) Io6
      ZaYd" 133                             al-Qahhak b. Makhlad" 148
 Bashir b. Sa'd 132, 133, 138               Damascus (P] 107
 al-Batra' (P] 42                           daraqah (kind of shield ) 84, 118
 al-Bayo' (P] 126                           al-Darb (P] X07
 Bayraha (palace in Medina) (PJ 66          Dhakwan Abu $alih • r48
 beard, shaving of 112-13                   Dhanab Nagama (P) 14, 15
 Bedouins 67, 68, 78, 94                    Dhat Allah [P], raid on 143
 Bi1a147, 122, 125                          Dhat al-Salasil, expedition of 146-47
 Bi'r Anna (or Una) [P] 28-29               Dhu Athir IN 46
 Bishah (P) 159                             Dhu al-Fagar (sword of 'All) 72o n. 499
bishop, Christian 104-5                    Dhu al-Iiulayfah IN 71, 90
 Bishr b. al-Bars ' b. Ma'rur 123-241      Dhu al-Limmah (horse of Mahmud b.

       mother of (Umm Bishr) 124                 Maslamah) 5o
 Bishr b. Mu'adh ` 8o                      Dhu al-Marwah [P] g i
 Bishr b. Sufyan al-Ka'bi 70                Dhu Qarad [P], expedition to xv, 43-51
 blood money (diyah1 5 5, 91 , 161,181,    Dhu al-Qaggah [P], raid on 93
                                           DhuTuwa (P) 70,176
       184,190                             Dhu'ayb b. al-Aswad b. Razn al-Dili
booty (fay') 123, 130; division of 38-391
                                                  160-61
       gifts to women from 126             Dhubab (P) 11
 bride gift/price ($adaq) 92, 110, 149     Dhubyan (T] 5 n. 18
Bu'ath, battle of 36                       Dibyah b. Khalifah al-Kalbi 28, 29, 94,
Budayl b. Warga ' al-Khuza'l 75-76,
                                                 98,100,104-6, 117
       162,163 , 164, 168, 171,175         al-Dil (of Banu Bakr b. 'Abd Manat b.
Bunanah (wife of al-Hakam al-Qura;i)
                                                 Kinanah ), Bant3 (TI16o-61
      41                                   Qirar b. al-Khalxab b . Mirdas (of Banu
Buraydah b. al-Hu@ayb al -Aslami* 119,
                                                 Muharib b. Fihr) 18
         120                               diyah, see blood money
                                           dreams xvi, 62,101 , 102,122
Buraydah b. Sufyan b. Farwah al-           Duldul (mule) 13 r
     Aslami' 85                            Dumat al-)andal (P); expedition to xi,

Bugra [P] xviii, ror                             4-5; raid on 95
Byzantines xi, xviii, 12, 15 3 ; see also
                                                                     E
      Romans
                                           elephant (God's restraining from
                       C                         Mecca) 73

Caesar (designation of Roman/              Emigrants (muhafirun) 10, 50, 52, 60,
      Byzantine emperor) 16, 77, 94, 98,         68, 70, 8o, 120, 146, 147, 768, 174,
      I00                                        175,176

calendar, Islamic xxii                     Ethiopia/Ethiopians xi, 108 , log, 180;
circumcision 1or-2                               see also Negus
Constantinople [P) Io6-7
Copts 114
Cross, Great (regained by Herachus)

        I00-I

[[p 227]]
2,62                               Index

eunuch (sent by al-Muqawqis) 13 1         H

                       F                  Iiabib b. Abi Aws" 144
                                          Habib b. 'Uyaynah b. Hign 5o
Fadak (P] 123 , 128, 129, 132 raid on 95
Fakhitah bt. al-Walid (wife of $afwin b.  Hadas [T) 159
                                          Jiadd (limit, prescribed punishment) 63
      Umayyah) 185
al-Fakih b . al-Mughirah (paternal uncle       n. 252
                                          Hadl, Bane [T] 32
     of Khilid b. al-Walid) 189, 19 1     al-Ha4rami, Band (T] 160
Firi' (fortress of Hassan b. Thabit) (P)  Hafg b. Fulin 79
                                          Iiafgah bt . 'Umar (wife of the Prophet)
      22-23,56
Fartana (singing girl of'Abdallah b.           xii
                                          lia fafah (kind of shield) 84
      Khatal) 179-81                      al-Hajjaj b. 'Ilit al-Sulami al-Bahzi 126-
Fatimah bt. Muhammad (daughter of
                                                28
      the Prophet) 164-65
                                          al-Hajun (P] 175
fay', see booty                           al-Hakam b . Bashir' 67
Fazarah, Bane (T] 5 n. 18, 8, 96-97       al-Hakam al-Qura*i 41
Fihr, Band (T] 178
                                          al-Hakamb.'Utaybah' 134
Fire (of Hell) 46, 55,125,152             Hakim b. Hakim b. 'Abbid b. Hunayf'
flogging 63
al-luray'ah (mother of Hassan b.                189
                                          Hakim b. Hizim 168,171,174-75
      Thabit) 65                          Halimah (woman of Muzaynah) 93

                       G                  Halyah (P] 191

Gabriel (angel) xv, 12,27-29,83, 145      Hamnah bt. Jahsh 61, 63
Gaza (P] 102                              Hamzah b. Abd al-Muttallb 182
Gehenna (P] 37                            Hanifah b. Lujaym, Bane (T] 98 n. 425
                                          Harb b. Umayyah (of Quraysh) (T] 98
al-Ghabah (P] 13, 43, 44, 149             al-Harith, daughter of (of Bane al-

Ghilib b. 'Abdallih al-Laythi al-Kalb!          Najjar) 35
      132-33,139,140,142                  al-Harith b. 'Abd Manit b. KinAnah,

al-Ghamr (P], raid on 93                       Band (T] 13 n. 74, 78,176
Ghanm (clan of al-Aws), Banu (T) 29       al-Harith b. 'Abd al-Muttalib 168 n.
Ghanm (clan of Hadas), Band (T] 159
ghashyah (fainting spell accompanying           700,169
                                          al-Harith b. Abi Qirar 51
      revelation) 3, 63                   al-Harith b. Abi Shimr al-Ghassini 98
Chassan, Bane (T] xviii, 98, 107-8        al-Harith b. 'Awf b. Abi HArithah al-
Ghatafan (T] xiv, xv, 5 n. 18, 8,14-151
                                                Murri 8, 17, 133
       17,23-25,27,30,43,47,51,116,       al-I Iirith b. Aws 21
       133                                al-Harith b. Hisham b. al-Mughirah al-
Ghifir, Band (T] 43, 51, 177, 186
al-Ghumay$a' (P] 189                            Makhzumi, uncles of" 160
Ghurab (mountain near Medina) (P] 42      al-Harith b. al-Khazraj, Band [T] 15, 66
Ghuran (P) 42-43                          al-Harith b. Malik (Ibn al-Barga') al-
Greeks, see al-Apfar, Romans
                                                Laythi140-41
                                          Iiarithah b. al-Harith (of al-Aws), Band

                                                (T] 10,16- 17,19, 49,118, 123,129
                                          Hirdn b. Isl}aq' 87

[[p 228]]
Index                                     203

 harwalah (quick walk) 135                       83, 115 , 1281 treaty of xvi-xviii,
 al-Hasan b. 'Ali b. AM Tslib 164-65             85-90, 92, 98, too, 104, 161, 162,
                                                 x63, 1751 year of 44, 68
 al-Hasan b. 'Umirah' 134                  Hudaylah, palace of Band (P] 66
                                           Hudhayfah b. al-Yamin (Abu'Abdal-
 al-II Iasan b. YabYi 44, 69, 79, 83, 97         11h)10, 25-27
 Hishim (clan of Quraysh), Band (T)        Hudhayl (T] 188
                                           al-Hulayfah (P] 167
       187, 188                            al-II Iulays b.'Algamah (orb. Zabban)
 Hassin b. Thibit al-Angiri 22 -23,63-
                                                 77-78
       66,13' , 166,186                    Hunayn (P] xix, 176
 Hilib b. Abi Balta'ah al-Lakhmi 98,       Uuraqah (of Juhaynah) (TI 132
                                           Hurmuz ( Persian emperor) i i 1
       100, 131 , 166-67                   I3usayl b. Nuwayrah al-Ashja'i 133
 hatif (mysterious voice) 36               Husayn b.'Abdallih b.'Ubaydallih b.
 Hawizin (T] 170,175,176; raid on
                                                 Abbas" 171
      "rear of" 131                        al-Huwayrith b. Nuqaydh b. Wahb b.
 Hawdhah b. 'Ali al-Hanafi 98, 99
 Hawdhah b. Qays 31-W1117 17                      Abd b. Qugayy 179, 18 x
 Hazn b. Abi Wahb 97                       HuwaYlib b. Abd al-'Uzzi b. Abi Qays
 heavens, seven Iraqi) 35
 Hebrew (language) 105                          b. 'Abd Wudd b. Nagr b. Malik b.
 Hell; see Fire; Gehenna                        His179, 80,136
 Heraclius (Byzantine emperor) zoo-6,      Huyayy b. Akhlab al-Na4ari 7,14-15,

      153,156                                    30,35-37
Hibbin b. Qays b. al-'Arigah ( of Banu     hypocrites (munafiqun) xi, xvii, 8, 9,

      'Amir b. Lu'ayy) 20, 21                    12, 13, 16, 33 n. 148, 54, 61, 167

  iijab ( curtain) 19, 32, 39, 59                                    I
 Hijaz (P] 37, 53, 102, 112, 122,126
                                          Ibn 'Abbas •; see'Abdallih b. 'Abbas
Hilil, Banu (T] 131                       Ibn'Abd al-M! *; see Muhammad b.

Himis b. Qays b. Khilid al-Bakri 177-           Abd al-AU
       781 wife of 177, 178               Ibn'Abdallih b. Abi Hadrad al-Aslami•

Ijiml (P] 101,107                                  191
Himyar, language of 114
Hind bt. 'Utbah b. Rabi'ah (wife of Abu   Ibn Abi Ahmad 167
                                          In Abi al-'Awji' al-Sulami 138
      Sufyin b. Herb) 181-83              In AM 'Awn* 13 3
al-Ijirah (P) 12, 13                      Ibn Abi Dhi'b (Muhammad b. 'Abd al-
al-IHisi' (P] r 5 5
Hishim b. 'Abd al-Malik" 69                     Rabmin b. al-Mughirah)' 137
Hishim b. $ubibah 51, 55-56               In Abi Hadrad; see'Abdallih b. Abi
Hishim b. 'Urwah b. al-Zubayr' r 19,
                                                Uadrad
      174                                 Ibn Abi al-Hugayq 117, 1221 fortress of;
Hismi (P], raid on 94
                                                see al-Qamu$
Holy Spirit (Ruh al-Qudus, Gabriel) 83    In Abi Quhifah, see Abu Bakr
House of Assembly (Dar al-Nadwah)         Ibn Abzi'; see 'Abd al-Rabmin b. Abzi
                                          In al-Akwa'; see Salamah (b. 'Amr) b.
      (P] 134
                                               al-Akwa'
Hubayrah b. Abi Wahb al-Makhzumi
      18, 185-86

Hubayshah (woman of Banu Jadhimah)

        191-92

al-Hudaybiyah (P) 67, 69-70,73 -7 3, 81,

[[p 229]]
204 Index

lbn al-Ash'ar al-Ka'bij see Khunays             Ibrahim b. Said al-Jawhari" 139-40
Ibn Bashshar "j see Muhammad b.                 Idam (P), raid to 151-52
                                                'iddah (period before remarriage of
     Bashshar
Ibn Bishr "j see Muhammad b. Bishr                   divorced woman) 3 n. 6
Ibn Hishim xx, xxii                             idols, destruction of 187-88
Ibn Humayd xx, 5, 6 ,13,17,19, 20, 22,          Ignorance, Time ofj see jdhiltyyah
                                                ilirdm (pilgrim garb, state of ritual con-
      25, 27, 31, 34, 36, 38, 40,41, 43, 49,
      50, 51, 55, 56, 57, 58, 63, 65, 66, 67,         secration) xlii, xvii, 68,136 n. 578,
      68, 7 o, 71, 72, 74, 76, 77, 78, 81, 82,
     85, 89, 90, 96, 98, 99, 100,104,105,               171
       io6, io8, III, 115 , 116, 117, I19,
                                                'Ikrimah (mawld of Ibn'Abbls )" 78, 81,
       121,122, 124,125 , 128,129,132,                171

       133,1134, 1351 136,138,140,142,          'Ikrimah b. Abi Jahl al-Makhzumi 18,
                                                      24,71-72, 162, 166,177 -8o, 185
       143,146, 149,,51 , 152,,155t 156,
       158,159, t6o,16x , 166,168,176,          'Ikrimah b.'Ammir al-Yamami" 44,

       177, 178, 181,184, 185, 186,187,               69,80,83,97
       188, 189, 191, 192                       Irishah (subdivision of Bali) (T)153
Ibn Ishaq xx, 6,8, 13, 17, 19, 20, 22,21        al'tg(P)9ljraidon93
                                                Ishaq b. Yasar" 29, 57, 63
       25, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36,  Ismi'il b. Abi Khilid' 83
       38, 40,41,43,44,48,49, 50, 51, 54,       Israel, Children of (T) 36, 73
       ;, 56, 57, 58, 63, 65, 66, 67, 68, 70,   Isra'il b. Yunus" 54, 88
                                                lyis b. Salamah b. a]-Akwa' 44, 69, 79,
       72,
       90, 91 , 92, 96, 98, 99, 100, 104, 105,        8o, 82, 83, 97
       1o6,107 , 108,109,III,112,113,
       I15, 116, 117, 119, 121, 122, 124,                          I

       125, 126, 128, 129, 132, 133, 134,       Jabal b. Jawwal al-Tha'labi 36
                                                Jabber b. $akhr b. Khansi' al-Salami 129
       135, 136, 138, 140, 142, 143, 146,       Jabir b. 'Abdallih b. 'Amr b. Harem al-
       149,151,152,155,156,158, 159,
                                                      Khazraji al-An$ari' 69, 70, 83, 84,
       160, 161 , 162,166, 168,171, 176,
       177, 178, 181, 184, 185, 186, 187,              118,129, 147,148
       188, 189, 19o, 191, 192                  Jacob 63
                                                al-jadd b. Qays al-Salim-1 al-An$lri 83,
Ibn Jurayj ('Abd al-Malik b. 'Abd
     al-'Aziz)' 148                                   84
                                                Jadhimah b. 'Amin b. 'Abd Manit b.
Ibn al-Khattibj see 'Umar b. al-Khattib
Ibn al-Muthanni ' 70, 148                             Kininah, Band (T), expedition to
Ibn al-Qa'ga'" 151                                    188-91
Ibn Sa'd"j see Muhammad b. Sa'd                 Ja'far b. Abi al-Mughirah 71
Ibn'Umar"j see 'Abdallih b.'Umar                Ja'far b. AbiTilib xviii, 108-9,144,
Ibn 'Umarah "j see Muhammad b.                         152,556-59
                                                Ja'far b. Mahmdd (father of Ibrahim b.
      'Umarah                                         Ja'far)" 5
Ibn Wahb'j see 'Abdallah b. Wahb                Jahdam (of Band Jadhimah ) 189-go
Ibn Waki", see Sufyin                            jdhiliyyah (pagan times, time of igno-
Ibn Zayd'j see'Abd al-Rahman b. Zeyd                   rance) 22, 23 , 36, 76, x61, 181, 184,
Ibn Zunaym 80) see also Zunaym                         189-91
Ibrahim b. Ja'far" 5
Ibrahim b. Muhammad (son of the

      Prophet) zoo

[[p 230]]
Index                                        20 5

Jahjah b. Said al-Ghifari 51, 52             Ka'bah xix, 68, 75, 77, 78, 82, 91,128,
Jahsh b. Ri'ab x n. t                               137, 173, 174, 178; Black Stone of
Jamilah bt. Thabit b. Abi al-Aglah 94-             135; custodianship of (sidanah)181

       95                                    Kada' (P) 163, 176
al-Jamum (P1, raid on 93
al-Janab (horse of 'Ukkishah b.              al-Kadid [P] 139-40, z68

     Miboan) 5o                              Kalb b. Awf b. 'Amir b. Layth b. Bakr,
al-jar [P] 110                                    Banu(T]51
jashishah (gruel) 14
Jayfar b. Julanda al-Azdi 99, 142            Kathir b. 'Abdallih b. Amr b. Awf al-
Jerusalem (P] for                                 Muzani' 10
Jesus 108 -9; disciples of 99
Jews xi, xiv-xv, 7, 8, 22, 24, 30, 54, 95,   al-Katibah (fortress at Khaybar) (P1117
                                                  n. 489,123,128
         101, 116, 122, 126 , 129, 13o, see
                                             Kavidh II Sheroe (Qubadh II
     also Judaism, Sabbath, Torah                 Shirawayh); see Shirawayh
fibril; see Gabriel
jilbab (type of garment) 52, 59,65           al-Khabal, expedition of 147-49
al-jinab (P], raid to 133                    Khadijah (wife of the Prophet) 2 n. 5, 94
jizyah (tax/tribute) 107, 142
Jordan (Pj 107                                     n. 400
Joseph 63                                    al-Khazaa' ( squadron of the Prophet's
Ju'ayl, renamed Amr by Muhammad 9
Judaism 39                                        troops) 174
Juddah (P] 184-85                            Khalid b. Said b. al-A§ 1o9-10
Judhsm (T] 94,146,153                        Khalid b. Sumayr' 157
Juhaynah (Ti 132, 147, 174, 177, 178,        Khalid b. al-Walid b. al-Mughirah 70-

      187                                          72, 143, 145-46,157,159,174-78,
Jumah (clan of Quraysh), Bann (Ti 184              187-91; named "Sword of God"
Junaydib b. al-Adla' (or al-Athwa`) al-            158
                                             Khalid b. Yasar' Io6
     Hudhali 184                             Khallid b. Suwayd b. Thalabah b. 'Amr
Jundab b. Makith al-Juhani 140,141                b. Balbarith b. al-Khazraj 40,41
al-Juruf (P] 13                              al-Khandamah (PJ 177, 178
Jusham b. Mu'awiyah, Band (T] 149            al-Khallab (father of 'Umar b. al-
Juwayriyah bt. al-Harith b. Abi Qirar             Khaxlib)172
                                             al-Khawaniq (PJ 191
      (wife of the Prophet) xii-xiii, 51,    Khawwat b. Jubayr 15
                                             Khaybar IN xv, 48,95, xio; expedition
      56-57                                        to xi-xii, xvii, 116-26, 128-30,

                       K                           133, 152
                                             al-Khazraj (Ti 15, 33, 55, 61, 188
Ka'b b. Abd al-Ashhal, Band (T] 49           Khirish b. Umayyah b. al-Fall al-Ka'bi
Ka'b b. `Amr (of Khuzi'ah), Band (T]
                                                   al-Khuzi'i 81, 89,184
     162-63 ,166,175-76                      Khubayb b. 'Adi x6,42
Kab b. Asad al-QuraTI 14-15, 30, 3S,         Khudrah, Band 34 n. 152
                                             khums (fifth of booty) 38-39, 128,130
      37
Ka'b b. Lu'ayy (of Quraysh) (Ti 75           Khunays b. Khalid (al-Ash' ar) b. Rabi'ah
Ka'b b. QurayTah, Band (T] 37                      b. Aram b. Qabis b. Habashiyyah

                                                   b. Ka'b b. Amr 176,177-78
                                             Khurrakhusrah 112-14; called Dhu al-

                                                   Mi'jazah 114
                                             Khusrau II Parviz; see Kisra

[[p 231]]
206  Index

Khuza'ah, Band (T) xviii-xix, 41, 5 if         Makhid [P) 42
      75, 86, 92, 160-63, z66,171-72           Makhramah b. Nawfal 171
                                               Makhzdm ( clan of Quraysh ), Band (T]
Kinanah, Band (T] 23, 18, 77, 165,187
Kininah b. al-Rabi' b. Abi al-Hugayq                i8, 19, 22
                                               Malik (of Banu al-Mugtaliq) 56
      al-Nadari 7,' 17, 122-23                 Malik b.'Abbad al-Ha4rami i 6o
Kisra (Persian emperor) 12, 13, 16, 77,        Malik b. Hudhayfah b. Badr 96
                                               Malik b. Rifilah'53,159
      98,110-14                                Ma'mar b. Rashid" 68, 69, 74, 88
Kuda(PJ176                                     Manit (pagan goddess) 188
al-KUfah (PJ 25                                al-Maras (PJ 5
Kulthdm b. al-Aswad b. Razn al-Dili            Marbab the Jew 118,121
                                               Mariyah the Copt (wife of the Prophet)
     16o-6i
Kura' al-Ghamim IN 43, 71                           xiii, 100,13 1
Kurz b. Jabir b . I;iisl b. al-Ajabb b. Habib
                                               Marr al-Zahran [P] 138, z68,171,174,
      b. 'Amr b. Shayban b. Mubarib al-
      Fihri 97-98, 176-78                            175
                                               martyrdom 46, 67, 154, 155, 158
                       L                       Marwan b. al-Hakam" 68, 69, 74, 88,

labbayka (pilgrim's cry) 77, 79                      9o,161
Lakhm (T) 98,153, 159                          Marwan b. 'Uthman b. Abi Said b. al-
al-Lit (pagan goddess) 76, 169
al-Layth b. Sa'd al-Mi$ri" 69                       Mu'a111" 124
Lesser Pilgrimage of the Pact ('umrat          Mary (mother of Jesus) Io8
                                               Mas'adah b. Hakamah b. Malik b. Badr
     al-gacliyyah), for Lesser Pilgrimage
                                                    96
   of Fulfillment ('umrat al-gaga ')           Masharif [P] 156
                                               Masud b. Rukhaylah b. Nuwayrah b.
      134 n. 559, 138
Libyan, Banu (T] 16 n. 84, expedition               Tarif b. Submah b. 'Abdallah b. Hi-
                                                    lal b. Khalawah b. Ashja' b. Rayth
      against xv, 42, 43                            b. Chatafan 8
                                               mawla, pl. mawali (client[s]) 6, 33, 34,
al-Lit [P) 177                                       81, 90, 121, 124, 133, 137, 144, 162,
                                                     179; mawlah (f.) 267, 179, 182
Lu'ayy (ancestor of clans of Quraysh)          al-Mayfa'ah (P)132
      186                                      Maymdn (Abu'Abdallah)" 129
                                               Maymdnah bt. al-Harith (wife of the
                       M                            Prophet) xiii, 136, 137
                                               Mecca xvi-xvii, xix, 7 ,42-44, 5 5, 56,
Ma'eb [P] 153, 154                                   71-73, 80-82, 86, 88, 90-92, 97,
Ma'an (PJ, see Mu'an                                 126,127, 134,136, 138,189; con-
                                                     quest of 40,145 ,151, 15 2, 16o-87,
Ma'bad b. Ka'b b. Malik al-An$ari" 29
al-Mada'in (PJ 12, 13                                189, 192sacred territory (Karam)
al-Madhad (P] io
Magian' i z ; see also Zoroastrians                  surrounding xvii, 16x-62,176
Mabmiyah b . al-Jaz' al-Zubaydi 15 1           Medina xi, xiv-xvi, xix, 5, 8,17, 27,
Mabmdd b. Maslamah al-Ashhali 49,
                                                     41-45, 48, 51 -54,57, 59,6o, 66,
      5A, 87, 117, 123                               67,71, 90,91 ,93,94, 97,110,112,

                                                     1150
                                                     137, 138, 143, 148, 152, 159,i6o,

[[p 232]]
Index 207

      163,164,168,169,'7z) date har-              expedition to Khaybar 116-24,
      vest of xiv, 17s fortresses/                 126-30; expedition to al-Muraysi
      strongholds of xo,14, 15,19, 22,            411 expedition to Mu 'tah 152-60;
      23, 28, 30; lava flows surrounding          expedition to Wadi al -Qura 124,
      11-121 marketplace of 351 mosque             125i on Farewell Pilgrimage 135;
      of 29, 31-33, 40, 90, 162,165               foretold in Christian scriptures
mighfar (neck armor) 21, 76,121                    105-6; on Lesser Pilgrimage of
Mikraz (of al-'Abalit) 8o                         Fulfillment 133-38, and lie/
Mikraz b. Hafg b. al-Akhyaf al-'Amiri             slander against 'A'ishah xii, xv-
                                                  xvi, 5 7-67; marries Juwayriyah bt.
      78, 87,138                                  al-Harith xii-xiii, 57i marries
Mina JPJ 71                                       Maymdnah bt. al-Harith 136-37;
al-Migdad b.'Amr (al-Aswad) al-Kind!
                                                  marries Mulaykah bt. Diwdd al-
      46,49                                       Laythiyyah 187; marries Umm
Miqsam' 134                                       Habibah bt. AN Sufyin 109-1o;
Miqyas b. $ubabah 55-56, 179,180; sis-            marries Zaynab bt. Jahsh xii-xiii,
                                                  1-4,19 n. 96; messages to foreign
      ter of i 8o                                 rulers xi-xii, xvii -xviii, 98-100,
Mirdas b. Nahik 132                               104-14,142; migraines 120; pil-
Mistab b. Uthathah 6o, 61, 63, 64                 grimage halted at al-Hudaybiyah/
al-Miswarb. Makhramah * 68, 69, 74,               treaty of al-Hudaybiyah xvi-xvii,

      88, 9o,161                                  67-90, 115, 134, 137
Moses 145                                   Muhammad b.'Abd al-A'11 al-$an'ani'
Mother of the Faithful (title of wives of
                                                  68, 74, 76, 78, 88, 92
     the Prophet) 19, 40                    Muhammad b. Amr' 20, 21, 29, 34, 39
Mu'adh b. Md'ig b. Qays b. Khaldah 49       Muhammad b. Bashshar ' 10,119
Mu'idh b. Muhammad al-Angari' 138           Muhammad b. Bishr' 20, 29, 34, 39
Mu'in (PJ 1533,,154                         Muhammad b. Humayd' ; see Ibn
Mu'arrid b. al-I;Iajjaj b.'Ilat al -Sulami
                                                  Humayd
      126                                   Muhammad b. Ibrahim b. al-Harith al-
Mu'attib b . Qushayr ( of Band'Amr b.
                                                  Taymi* 66, 94, 138, 149
      'Awf )16                              Muhammad b. Ishaq'; see In Ishaq
Mu'awiyah b. Abi Sufyin 92                  Muhammad b. ja'far (Chundar) ' 119
Mu4ar (TJ 65, 187                           Muhammad b. Ja'far b. al-Zubayr' 36,
Mudlij(TJ189
al-Mughirah b. Shu'bah 76                         56, 152, 159, 166, 167, 184
Muballim b. jaththamah b. Qays al-          Muhammad b. Ka'b al-Qura;!' 6, 25,

      Laythi 151                                  85
Muhammad (the Prophet) 91-97, 101-          Muhammad b. Khalid Ibn Athmah' io
                                            Muhammad b. Manger' 79, 8o
      3,131-33,139-41,143- 51, x88-         Muhammad b. Maslamah al-Angari 32,
      91; at Battle of the Trench xiv, 5-
      271 called "king of llijaz" xi, 122,       93,118, 123,138
      12.4; conquers Mecca xii, xix,l6o-    Muhammad b. al-Munkadir' 83
      87,192; expedition to Band Lihyin     Muhammad b. Muslim al-Zuhri', see
      42, 431 expedition to Band al-
     Mugtaliq 51-57i expedition to               al-Zuhri
     Bane Qurayyah XV, 27- 411 expedi-      Muhammad b. Sa'd' xxii, 69
     tion to Dhu Qarad 43 -511 expedi-      Muhammad b. Thawr' 68, 74, 88
     tion to Demat al-Jandal 4, 5;          Muhammad b . 'Umar'; see al-Wagidl

[[p 233]]
208  Index

Muhammad b. 'Umarah al -Asadi' 79,             Muzaynah (T(93, 167, 168,177, 186
      80, 82
                                                                      N
Muhammad b. Yahya b. Habban * 1, 51
Muhammad b. Yahya b. Sahl b. Abi               al-Nadi (PJ I i

     Hathmah* 150                              al-Nadir, Band IT] xiv, 6, 7, 321 treasure
Muhammad b. Yazid" 83
Muharib b. Fihr (of Quraysh), Band (TJ               of 122

     18,176                                    Nafi' (mawla of 'Abdallih b.'Umar)'
Muhayyijah b. Mas'dd al-13arithi 123,               137

        128                                    Na'im (fortress at Khaybar) (P) 117
                                               Najd (Pj 14, 39; raid to 131
Muhriz b. Nasllah (called al-Akhram,           Najiyah b. 'Umayr b. Ya'mar b. Darim
     Qumayr) 49-50
                                                     74
Mujahid' 67, 89,136                            al-Najjar (of al-Khazraj), Band (T( 35,
mukatabah (manumission by contract)
                                                     56,63
      57                                       Najran (P)185-86
al-Mulawwib, Band (TJ, expedition              Nakhib(PJ112
                                               Nakhlah (P)187
     against 139-40                            Namds, Great (Angel Gabriel) 145
Mulaykah bt . Dawdd al-Laythiyyah              Naq'a' (P( 53

     (wife of the Prophet) 187                 al-Nagl' (PJ 53
Munabbih al-Khuza'i 162
Munabbih b. 'UthmAn b. 'Ubayd b. al-           NatAh (fortress at Khaybar ) (P)117 n.
                                                     489, 123, 128
     Sabbaq b. 'Abd al-Dar 19
mundfigtinl see hypocrites                     Nawfal b. 'Abdallah b. al-Mughirah al-
al-Mundhir (son of Salmi bt. Qays) 38               Makhzdmi 18-19
al-Mundhir b. al-Harith b. Abi Shimr
                                               Nawfal b . Mu'awiyah al-Dili 161-62
      al-Ghassani 107-8                        Negus (ruler of Ethiopia ) xviii, 77, 98,
al-Mundhirb . Sawa al-'Abdi 99, 142
Munqidh, Band (T] 177                                108-10, 143-45
al-Mugawgis 98, 100, 114, 131                  Niq al-'Ugab (PJ 169,171
al-Murar Pass (P) 73                           Nu'aym b. Mas'dd b. 'Amir b. Unayf b.
al-Muraysi' [PJ xv, 41, 51, 5 2
Murrah b. 'Awf, Band (TJ 8, 15 61 raid              Tha'labah b. Qunfudh b. Hilal b.
                                                    Khalawah b. Ash (a' b. Rayth b.
      against 132                                   Ghatafan 23-25
Musa b. Muhammad" 94                           al-Nu'man b. Muqarrin al-Muzani 10
                                               Numaylah b. 'Abdallah 180
Musa b.'Ubaydah' 79, 82
                                                                         P
Mu^'ab b . al-Migdam* 87
al-Musayyab b. Muslim al -Awdi' 120            Palestine (PJ 107
al-Mushallal' 141,188                          Paradise 26,46, x25, 126
mushriktin; see polytheism/poly-               Persia/Persians xi, xiv, xviii, loo-1,

     theists Muslim b. 'Abdallah b.                   111-12, 1141 see also Kisra
     Khubayb al-Juhani' 140                    Pharaoh 145
mustache, clipping of 112-13                   Pilgrimage xix, 41 ,115,137, of Fulfill-
al-Multaliq, Band (TI 13 n. 74, expedi-
      tion against xiii, xv, 41, 51-52, 5 5 -        ment ('umrat al-ga4d') 67, 133-381

      58
Mu'tah ( PI, expedition to xi , 129, 137,

      152-60

[[p 234]]
Index 209

      lesser ('umrah) 67, 75; right of sup-       22-26, 42; expedition against xiv-
     plying water to pilgrims (sigayah)
                                                      XV, 27-41
         181
                                             Qurh (P1154
polytheism/polytheists 17, 40, 41, 45,       Qutbah b. Qatadah al-'Udhri 156,159
      79-81, 87, 89, 92, 97, 115, 134,
       137, 164, 178, 179                                           R

prayer, afternoon 28, 29; Call to 125,       Rabat} (slave of Muhammad) 44
      158, dawn 97,125; evening 29;          Rafi' (mawld of Khuza'ah)162
      leading, as sign of authority 147;     al-Raliiman (the Merciful, name of God)
      midafternoon 140; morning 32;
      peace at end of 125; for rain 95;            85
      shortened on journey 192               to/az (poetic meter) 9, 45, 46, 118, 119,

pulpit (minbar) 131, 158                           I20,I2I,141 , 155,178
                                             al-Raft' [P] 16,42
                       Q                     al-Raft' (near Khaybar) [P) 116
                                             Ramadan, fasting in 168
al-Qamuy (fortress at Khaybar) IPI 117,      Rashid (mawla of In Abi Aws)' 143
                                             Rayhanah bt. 'Amr b. IChunafah xiii, 39
        122                                  al-Riclwan (Good Pleasure), pledge of

al-Qa'ga' b. 'Abdallah b. Abi Hadrad al-          xvii, 82, 83
     Aslami* 151                             Rifa'ah b . Qays 149-50
                                             Rifa'ah b. Shamwil al-Qura;i 38
al-Qarah [TI 13 n. 74, 16                    Rifa'ah b. Zayd al-Judhami al-Qubaybi
al-Qasim b. 'Abdallah b. 'Umar' 83
al-Qasimb.Bishrb.Ma'ruf• 157                       124
Qatadah al-Sadusi• 8o,181                    Rifa'ah b. Zayd b. al-Tabut 54
Qatari cloth 121                             Romans xoo, 101, 104 -7, 154, 156) see
Qaynuga', Banu [T] 33, 54
Qays 'Aylan (TI 8, 149, 187                        also Byzantines
Qays b. al-Musabbar al -Ya'murl 96           Rome [PI 1o5
Qays b. Sa'd 148                             Rufaydah 33
qiblah (direction of prayer) 38, 142, 190    Ruhat [PI 188
Qucla'ah IT) 143, 146, 175                   Rumah IP) 13,14

Qudayd IN 411, 51, 140, 141, 170                                    S

Qur'an xi, xiii, xvi, xviii, 62-64; see In-  al-$a'b b. Mu'adh 117
     dex of Qur'3nic Verses                  Sabbath (Jewish day of rest) 24, 28, 30
                                             Sa'd b. Abi Wagga$ 87
Quraybah (singing girl of 'Abdallah b.
     Khatal?) 181                            Sa'd b. Bakr, Banu [T), expedition

Quraybah bt. Abi Umayyah b. al-                    against 95
      Mughirah 92                            Sa'd b. Hudhaym, Banu (TI 96
                                             Sa'd b. Mani' (father of Muhammad b.
Quraysh [T] xiv, xv, xvii-xix, 7, 8,13-
       15, 18, 20, 23 -27, 30, 40, S2, 68,         Sa'd)" 69
      70, 72, 73, 75, 78- 82, 84 -87, 90-    Sa'd b. Mu'adh b. al-Nu'man b . Imru al-
       92, 112, 120, x26, 134-36,138,
       144,161 -63,165-68 ,170-71,                 Qays al-Ashhali xv,15 -22, 29-30,
       174-75, 179,181 -82,187                     33-35, 39-40; mother of (Umm
                                                   Sa'd)19, 20
Quraybah, Banu [TI xi, xiii, xiv, 14, 20,

[[p 235]]
210  Index

Sad b. 'Ubidah b. Dulaym al-SA'idi IS-          Salamah b. al-Mayla ' al-Juhani 178
      17, 61, 133, 1761 mother of 5             al-Salasil (P] 146, see also Dhit al-

Sa'd b. Zayd al-Ashhali al-AnOri 39,                 Salasil
                                                Salim (mawld of'Abdallih b. Mupi')*
     49,188
$addq; see bride gift/price                             124
$adagah (alms, poor rate ) 142, 179
Sadds al-Quda'i 143                             Salimah, Band (T] 49, 50, 84,129
                                                Salit b. 'Amr b. 'Abd Shams b. 'Abd
al-Safi (P] 182
                                                     Wudd al-'Amiri 98, 99
$afiyyah bt. 'Abd al-Muttalib 22-23,            Salit b. Qays 38
                                                Sallim b. Mishkam 123
        119                                     Salmi (maidservant of the Prophet( 3
                                                Salmi b. al-Aswad b. Razn al-Dili i6o-
$afiyyah bt. Huyayy b. Akhtab xiii,
                                                     6i
        117,122,127-28
                                                Salmi bt. Qays ( maternal aunt of the
$afwin b. al-Mu'attal al-Sulam! 59-61,
                                                      Prophet) 38
      64-67                                     Salman al-Finsf xiv, 8, io-i2
$afwan b. Umayyah 92, 162, 166,177-             $an'A' (P], palaces of 12
                                                Sirah (mawldh of 'Amr b . HAshim b.
      78,184-85
Sahm (clan of Aslam), Band (T] 117                   'Abd al-Mullalib) 167, 179-81
Said b. 'Abd al-Rahman b. Hassan b.             Sarif (P] 137
                                                Satan 186
     Thibit al-Angari• 186
Said b. Abi'Arubah * 8o                         satire (hiid')179
Said b. Hurayth al-Makhzdmi 18o                 Sawdah bt. Zam'ah (wife of the
Sa'idb. al-Musayyab' 58, 125
Said b. Shurabbil al-Migri* 69                       Prophet ) xii, 79 n. 340
Said b. Yahya b. Said al-Umawi" 140,            al-$awrAn [P] 28
                                                Sayah(P143
      r91
SS'idah b. Ka'b b. al-Khazraj, Band (T] 15      al-Sha'bi ", see 'Amin b. Sharahil
sad" (rhymed prose ) 159, 176
$akhr b.'Amir b. Ka'b b. Sa'd b. Taym 60        shahddah (profession of faith) 173
Sal' (P] 14,18, 48
SalSm b. Abi al-IIugayq al-Naclari 7            al-Sha'm (P] io7, see also Syria
Salamah (b. 'Amr) b. al-Akwa' al-               Shayban (of Sulaym), Band (T] 187-88
                                                al-Shiqq (fortress at Khaybar) (P] 117 n.
      Aslami 43-48, 49, 50, 69, 79, 8o,
      82-84,96-97,131                                 489,123,128
Salamah b . al-Fatll xx, 6, 13, 17, 19, 20,     Shirawayh ( son of Marl) 113,114
                                                Shu'bah* 70
       22, 25, 27, 31, 34, 36, 38, 40, 41, 43,  Shuja' b. Wahb (of Band Asad b.

       49,501 51,55,56, 57,58,63,65,66,              Khuzaymah) 93, 98,107-8,143
       67, 68, 70, 72, 74, 76, 77, 78, 81, 82,  Shurabbil b. 'Amr al-Chassini xviii
       85, 89, 90, 96, 98, 99, 100, 104, 105,   Sibs' b. 'Urfutah al- Ghifirl 5,116
       Io6, Io8, III, 115, I16 , I17, 119,      SinAn al-Juhani 52
       121, 122, 124, 125, 128, 129, 132,       singing girls (qaynah, pl. giydn ) 179-80

       133, 134, 135, 136, 138, 140, 142,       Sirin the Copt 66, 131
                                                soothsayer, woman (kdhinah) I S9
       143,146, 149,151 , 152,155,156,          Subay'ah bt. 'Abd Shams (mother of
       158,159, 16o,16,,166,168,176,
       177,178, 181,184,185,186,187,                 'Urwah b. Masud al-Thagafi) 76
       188,189,191,192                          Sufyan b. Waki'" 20, 29, 34, 39, 88,104
                                                Suhim (P] 170
Salamah b. Hisham b. al-Mughirah                Suhayl b. 'Amr (Abd Yazid) 78-81, 84-
      160, wife of 16o

[[p 236]]
Index                                        211

        87, 91, 162, , 66, 177,178            Tumadir bt. al-Agbagh 95
 $ukhayrat al-Yamim [P] 42                    Turabah (P] 131
                                              Turkish-style round tent (qubbah tur-
 al-Sulalim (fortress at Khaybar) (Pj 117,
                                                   kiyyah) i z; cf. 177 (qubbah, round
         123                                       tent)
 Sulaym, Banu (T] 93, 168, 170, 173,          Two Shaykhs, Fortress of (Ujum al-
                                                   Shaykhayn)Io
       175, z86, 187, 188, 189; raid on 138
 Sulayman b. Harb" 157                                               U
 sunnah 39,13S
                                              'Ubidah b. Malik; see'Abayah
al-Sugya [P] 17 1                              Ubidah b. al-$amit, kinsman of 51, 56
                                               Ubayd b. Zayd b. $imit (Abu'Ayyish)
 Surdad [Pj 170
 Suwa' (pagan god) 188                              49
 Sword of God; see Khalid b. al-Walid         'Ubaydallah b. 'Abd al-Rahman b.
 Syria [P] xv-xviii, 91, 100, 102-4, io6-
                                                   Mawhab" 137-38
       7,137,143, 146,152-53,155              'Ubaydallih b. 'Abdallah b . 'Utbah b.

                        T                          Masud" 58, zoo, 104, 168, 192
                                              Ubaydallih b. Ka'b b. Malik al -An$ari
al-Tabari (Abu Ja'far Muhammad b.
      Jarir)" xx-xxi, 5, 34, 42, 67, 71,           6, 22, 43, 50
      114,130,131,132,138,139,143            'Ubaydallih b. Musa " 79,80,82
                                             'Ubaydallih b. 'Umar b. al-Khaxlib 92
Taghlamin [Pj 5                               Udhrah, Banu [T] 146,156
al-TA'if (P] 112,174                          Uhud (P] 14, z5 , 19 i; battle of xiv, 18,
Talhah b. 'Ubaydallah 21, 44; slave of
                                                    182
      44,48                                  'Uk3;[Pj75
Tamim, Band (T] 171 n. 710, 187              'Ukkashah b. Mingan 49, 50, 93
Tamim b. Asad al-Khuzi'i 162                 'Uman (P] 100, 142
al-Taraf (P], raid on 94                      Umar b. Dharr al -Hamdani" 67
tasbighah (neck armor) 21                     Umar b . al-Khaxxab 21, 40, 51-52, 55,
Taym b. GhAlib, Band IT] 179
Thabit b. Aqram (of Banu al-'Ajlan) 93,            711,91 -83, 85, 87,92, 94-95,119-
                                                   20,131 , 146, 164, 165, 167,172-
      157                                          73, 182-83, caliphate of 13, 181;
Thabit b. Qays b. (al-)Shammas al-                 expels Jews of Khaybar xv, z 30
                                             'Umar b. Musa b. al-Wajih" 181
      liarithi 36-38, 56-57, 66              'Umirah b. 'Ugbah b. Abi Mu'ayJ 92
al-Tha'lab (camel of the Prophet) 81         Umaymah bt. 'Abd al-Multalib
Tha'labah, Banu [T] 94                             (mother of Zaynab bt. jahsh) i n. i,
Tha'labah (of Hades), Bantl [T] 159
Tha'labah b. Sa'yah al-Hadli 32, 39                4
Thagif (T] 76,170,175,176                    'Umayr b. Wahb 184-85
Thawr b. Zayd" 124                           Umayyah b . 'Abd Shams (clan of
Tihimah [P] 13, 7S, 189
Torah 7, 30                                        Quraysh), Band [T] 82 n. 354
Trench, battle of the xiv, xvi, 5, 7-27,     Umm Ayyub (wife of Abu Ayyub

      29, 40, 41, 144                             Khalid b. Zayd) 63-64
a1-Tulaga' (Those Whose Bonds Have           Umm Habibah bt. Abi Sufyan (wife of

     Been Loosed) xix, 182                         the Prophet) xiii, 109-10,164

[[p 237]]
212  Index

Umm Hakim bt. al-Harith b. Hisham           Wadi al-Qura (PJ, expedition to 124-25)
      (wife of 1krimah b. Abi jahI)179-          raid on 95-96
      80, 185
                                            Wa'il, Band (T] 7
Umm Hani' (Hind) bt. AbiTalib (wife         Waki' b. al-Jarrah' 88
     of Hubayrah b. Abi Wahb) 186           al-Walid b. 'Ugbah b. Abi Mu'ayt 92
                                            al-Wagidi (Muhammad b. 'Umar) xii,
Umm Kulthum bt. 'Amr b. Jarwal al-
    Khuza'iyyah 92                               xvi, xviii, xx-xxii, 1, 4, 5, 8, 40, 41,

Umm Kulthum bt. 'Ugbah b. Abi                    92, 93 , 94, 95, 97, 107, 109,113,
     Mu'ayt 92                                   114,131 , 132,133 , 137,138,139,
                                                 142,143 , 147,
Umm Mistal} bt. Abi Ruhm b, al-                  181, 184, 187,x88
     Muttalib b.'Abd Manaf 6o               Ward b.'Amr (of Band Sa'd b.
                                                 Hudhaym) 96
Umm Mujalid (mother of'Ikrimah b.           al-Watih (fortress at Khaybar) (PJ 117,
     Abi Jahl)166                                123
                                            al-Watir 160-63
Umm Qirfah (Fatimah bt. Rabi'ah b.          whale 147-49
      Badr) 96; daughter of 96, 97          women, as emigrants 92, gifts from
                                                 booty to 126; swear allegiance after
Umm Salamah (wife of the Prophet)                conquest of Mecca 182-84i see
      xii, 31-32, 89, 16o, 169                   also allegiance, oath of; hijdb

Umm Shaybah bt. AbiTalhah (wife of                                 Y
     al-I_iajjaj b. 'ilat al-Sulam!) 126
                                            Ya'fur (donkey) 131
Umm Sulaym bt. Milhan 131                   Yahya b. 'Abbad b . 'Abdallah b. al-
Uraynah, Band IT), raid on 97
Urwah b. Masud al-Thagafi 75-77                   Zubayr' 22, 58, 156
 Urwah b. al-Zubayr b. al-'Awwim • 6,       Yahya b. 'Abd al-'Aziz b: Said" 13 3
                                            Yahya b.'Abdallih b. Abi Qatidah' 139
      36, 56, 57, 58, 68, 69, 74, 88, 90,   Yahya b. Adam' 54,104
      152,                                  Yahya b. Sahib. Abi IHathmah' 150
Usamah b. Zayd 61,132                       Yahya b. Said al-An$ari' 149
Usayd b. Hudayr al-Ashhali 5 3, 61          Yahya b. Said al-Qattin' 68-69,74,88
Usaydb. Sa'yah 32                           Yahya b. Said al-Umawi' 140,191
Usayd b. Zuhayr al-kiarithi 49              al-Yamamah (PJ 99
'Usfan (P] 43, 70, 163, 168                 Ya'qub b. Ibrahim' 68 ,74,76, 78,88, 92
 Uthmanb.'Affan 81, 82,84,178-791           Ya'qub al-Qummi' 71
     caliphate of 13,181                    Ya'qub b. 'Utbah b . al-Mughirah b. al-
 Uthmin b. Talbah b. Abi Talbah
     al-'Abdari 143,146                           Akhnas b. Sharlq' 95 , 133,140,191
 Uyaynah b. Hisn b. I;Iudhayfah b. Badr     Yasar (mawld of the Prophet) 133
      al-Fazari 5, 8, 17, 43, 45, 133, 171  Yasir the Jew 118-19
al-'Uzza (pagan goddess) 187, 188           Yathrib (PJ 13; see also Medina
                                            Yayn (P) 42
                 V                          Yazid b. 'Abdallah b. Qusayt' 31,151
                                            Yazid b. Abi Habib al-Migri' 99,111,
vision (ru'yd) 87
                                                   112,113,143
                       W

al-Wads' Pass (P) 48

[[p 238]]
Index                                   213

Yazid b. J3riyah 94                     Zayd b. Harithah xii-xiii, xviii,l n.1,
Yazid b. Rumen (mawld of family of al-        2-4,93 -96, 152, 156-58) called
                                              Zayd b. Muhammad xiii, 2
     Zubayr) • 6
Yazid b. Ziyad' 25                      Zaynab bt. al-Ijarith 123-24
Yazid b. Zuray* 8o                      Zaynab bt. Jahsh (wife of the Prophet)
Yemen (P)112,159,179-80, 184-85,
                                              xii-Xiii, 1-4, 6x
      189                               Zaynab bt. Xhuzaymah (wife of the
Yumn (PJ 133
Yunus b. 'Abd al-A'14' xii, 4,83             Prophet) xii
Yunus b. Bukayr' xx, 120, 171           Zaynab bt. Muhammad (daughter of
Yusuf b. Musa al-Qattin' 69
                                              the Prophet) 94, 131, 139
                          Z             Zoroastrians 142; see also Magians
                                        al-Zubayr b. al-'Awwim 41, 119,122-
Zabbar (name for al-Zubayr b.
     al- Awwam, q.v.) 119                     23,z67,175-76
                                        al-Zuhri (Muhammad b. Muslim b.
al-Zabir b. Bata al-Qura;i 36-38
Zafar (P] 59                                  'Abdallah Ibn Shihib)' 6,17, 27,
Zaghabah (P] 13 n. 73                         36, 57, 58, 68, 69, 70, 73, 74, 76, 77,
Zayd b. Argam 52-54,155                       84, 88 , 90, 92 , 99, 100, 104, 111,
                                              125, 1291 130, 137, 16r, 168, 185,
                                              191,192
                                        Zunaym Si

                                        Zurayq, Banu (T) 49

[[p 239]]
Index of Qur'anic Verses *
              0

    Sara   73          Sdra                       9
  2:58     28        24:63-64                     26
  2:65     50, 59                                 16, 23
  2:156    36        33:9                         13
  3:154    7        33:10                         16
  4:51-55  151       33:12
  4:94     28        33:13                        12
  5:6o               33:22
 7:161     73       33:37                         3,4
 7:166     28       33:53                         19
 8:41               48:18                         82, 83
           128      48:24                         8o, 81
12:18               48:24-25
           63       48:29                         72
17:64      123                                    40
19:71      152      49:13                         181-82
           125      59:7                          128, 129
20:14      63       60:1-4                        167-68
           64       6o:io
24:4       64       6o: 12                        92
           64       63                            183
24:11      64       63:8
                                                  54
24:12      9       105                            52, 54
                                                  73
24:15
24:22
24:62

"Page numbers for this volume appear in italics.