Block 0:
  Maxims Of Imam Al-Kadhim (‘A) The following maxims and words of wisdom are related to the honest Imam Abu Ibrahim (or Abul- Hasan) Musa Ibn Ja’far Al-Kadhim (‘a) Imam Al-Kadhim’s (‘A) Commandment For Husham And The Depiction Of The Mind God the Elevated portends good to the people of reason and understanding in His Book. He says: Give the glad news to those of Our servants. (39:17). Who listen to ...

Block 1:
  Ibn Al-Hakam, God the Majestic has certainly submitted His arguments to people perfectly through minds, explained everything completely to them, and led people to His godhead through the guides. He says: Your Lord is the only Lord. There is no God but He, the Beneﬁcent and Merciful. (2:163) The creation of the heavens and the earth, the alternation of nights and days, the ships that sail in the se...

Block 2:
  , God the Majestic provides the people’s having a manager as the evidence on the acknowledgement of Him. He says: [[p 285]] God has made the day and the night, the sun and the moon, and all the stars subservient to you by His command. In this there is evidence of the truth for people of understanding. (16:12). God says: Ha Mim. (43:1). I swear by the illustrious Book. (43:2). We have made it an Ar...

Block 3:
  , God then preaches to the people of reason and makes them desirous to the world to come. He says: The worldly life is but useless amusement and sport (compared to) the life hereafter, which is far better and is only for the pious. Will you not then understand? (6:32). God also says: Whatever you (people) have been given are only the means for enjoyment and beauty of the worldly life, but the mean...

Block 4:
  , God then warns the unintelligent against His chastisement. He the Majestic says: Then We totally destroyed the others. (37:136). You pass by (their ruined town) in the morning. (37:137). And at night. Will you then not understand? (37:138)....

Block 5:
  , God then expounds that mind is always favoring knowledge. He says: These are parables, which We tell to human being, but only the learned ones understand them. (29:43)....

Block 6:
  , God then dispraises those who are incapable of understanding. He says: [[p 286]] When some people are asked to follow the revelations of God, they say, "We would rather fol-low what our fathers have followed," even though their fathers had no understanding and could not ﬁnd the true guidance. (2:170). God says: The wickedest beasts in the sight of God are the deaf and the dumb who have no unders...

Block 7:
  , God then praises minority. He says: Very few of My servants are grateful. (34:13). … Except for the righteously striving believers who are very few. (38:24). No one believed in him, except a few. (11:40)....

Block 8:
  , God then mentions the people of the reasonable understanding in the best way of praise and describes them in the best wording. He says: God gives wisdom to anyone whom He wants. Whoever is given wisdom, certainly, has received much good. Only people of reason can grasp this. (2:269). God also says: This is a reminder for everyone who has a heart. (50:37). ‘Heart’ in the previous Verse stands for...

Block 9:
  , Luqman said to his son: “Show modesty before the right and you will be the most reasonable. O son, this world is a deep ocean in which many people have sunk. God-fearing should be your ship in this ocean, faith the cargo, depending upon God its sail, reason its captain, knowledge its guide, and patience the anchor.”...

Block 10:
  , everything has its evidence. The evidence of being intelligent is pondering (over things) and the evidence on pondering is silence. Likewise, everything has its pack animal, and modesty is the pack animal of the intelligent. It is sufﬁcient ignorant to ride on that which you are told not to ride....

Block 11:
  , if people say that you have a pearl in your hand while you are sure it is a nut, not pearl, this should not advantage you. If people say that you have a nut in the hand while you are sure it is a pearl, not nut, this also should not harm you....

Block 12:
  , the main reason beyond God’s sending prophets and apostles is that people will understand the commandments of God and His apostles. The best responsive people will be the most understanding, the most knowledgeable of God’s commandments will be the most intelligent, and the most intelligent then will be the most high-ranking in this world and the world to come....

Block 13:
  , for every servant (of God), there is an angel invested with full power over him. Whenever that servant shows modesty for the sake of God, the angel will elevate him, and whenever he shows arrogance, the angel will humiliate him.1...

Block 14:
  , God has two arguments against people—one is explicit and the other is implicit. The explicit arguments of God are the apostles, prophets, and imams. The implicit arguments are the minds....

Block 15:
  , the true intelligent is he whose legal-gotten provisions do not divert him from thanking God and whose illegal-gotten provisions do not divert him from being tolerant....

Block 16:
  , as for those who extinguish the illumination of thinking with the long expectations, erase the novels of wisdom with the curious wording, and extinguish the lights of learning with the personal whims, they will back their whims to ruin their brains. Those who ruin their minds will surely devastate their worldly and religious affairs....

Block 17:
  , how come do you expect that God will accept your deeds while you are involving your mind with matters that are away from God’s commandments and you are complying with your whims and letting them overcome your mind?...

Block 18:
  , the steadfastness against seclusions is a proof on willpower. He who understands the commandments of God, the Blessed the Exalted, will surely withdraw from the people of the worldly pleasures. He will also be desirous for that which God has promised and will regard God as the sociable in seclusion, the companion in loneliness, the fortune in poverty, and the supporter instead of the clan....

Block 19:
  , the creatures have been formed for obeying God. No safety is obtained without obedience. [[p 288]] The course of obedience is knowledgeability and the course of knowledgeability is learning. Learning is possible through mind. There should be a godly scholar who is the source of knowledge. Such scholars can be recognized through the mind....

Block 20:
  , the few deeds of the intelligent will be accepted and doubled, while the many deeds of the followers of passions and the ignorant will be rejected....

Block 21:
  , the true intelligent is that who agrees to have minimum worldly needs with wisdom. He does not agree to have little wisdom with all of the worldly pleasures. Therefore, his trade has been proﬁtable....

Block 22:
  , if you think it is fortunate for you to have only what sufﬁces you then you will be sufﬁced with the least needs of this world. If you think it is not sufﬁcient for you to have the minimum needs of this world then all the worldly pleasures will not sufﬁce you....

Block 23:
  , the intelligent have left the pleasures of this world. How is it then for the sins? The abstinence from the worldly surplus pleasures is recommendable while the desistance from com-mitting sins is obligatory....

Block 24:
  , the intelligent have abstained from the worldly pleasures and desired for the world to come because they have known that world, as well as the world to come, is demanding and demanded.2 The world will surely trace the seeker of the world to come to give him his provisions perfectly. The world to come will trace the seeker of the worldly pleasures when death over-comes him to deprive him of the p...

Block 25:
  , as for those who desire for being rich without fortune, having peace of mind against envy, and enjoying safety of the religion, they are advised to beseech to God imploringly for granting them perfect intelligence, for the intelligent will surely satisfy themselves with only what is sufﬁcient for them. Consequently, he who satisﬁes himself with only what is sufﬁcient for him will be surely rich....

Block 26:
  , as describing the manners of virtuous people, God the Majestic mentions that they are used to saying: Lord, do not cause our hearts to deviate from Your guidance, and grant us mercy. You are the Most Awarding One. (3:8). This is because they realized that hearts might be deviated or might regain their blindness and ruination. He who does not understand God’s commandments will not fear Him. Simil...

Block 27:
  , Amir al-Mu’minin used to say: “The most favorable way of worshipping God is the intelligentness”.3 Mind is not perfect for a man unless he enjoys many qualities: he should save people from his atheism and evil and make them expect his reason and good. His wealth should be offered and he should avoid useless wording. His food should be his share from the worldly pleasures. He should never stop se...

Block 28:
  , the deeds of the truthful will be puriﬁed, the provisions of the well-meaning will be increased, and the age of those how treat their friends and folks charitably will be elongated....

Block 29:
  , do not speak wording of wisdom before the ignorant so that you will not wrong it. Do not prevent the wise from receiving the wisdom lest you will wrong them....

Block 30:
  , as they left wisdom for you, you should leave the worldly pleasures for them....

Block 31:
  , those who lack personality are surely lacking the religion and those who are unintelligent are surely lacking personality. The most high-ranking people are those who disregard the worldly pleasures completely. Paradise is the only price of your bodies; do not sell them with anything other than Paradise....

Block 32:
  , Amir al-Mu’minin (‘a) used to say: “No one should sit in the forefront of a session except those who can answer when they are questioned, speak when others cannot, and own the most successful opinion. He who does not enjoy these three characters and allow himself to sit in the forefront of a session is surely idiot. Al-Hasan Ibn Ali (‘a) used to say: ‘You should seek needs only from their proper...

Block 33:
  , the intelligent should not talk to the individuals that they anticipate they will belie him, ask [[p 290]] from individuals that they anticipate they will not give, promise of things that they can-not do, hope for things that harm them, or take the initiative in doing what they anticipate they will not be able to accomplish. Amir al-Mu’minin (‘a) used to say to his companions: I command you to f...

Block 34:
  , God will compassionate them who feel properly embarrassed from Him by keeping the head with what it contains (like the eye, the ear, and the tongue) and the abdomen with what is in it, retain death and misfortune, and realize that Paradise is surrounded by misfortunes and Hell is surrounded by the appetites....

Block 35:
  , for those who abstain from engaging themselves in people’s honors, God will protect them from slipping on the Day of Resurrection. For those who save people from (the results of) their rage, God will save them from His wrath on the Day of Resurrection....

Block 36:
  , the true intelligent should never tell lies even if it accords his whim....

Block 37:
  , in the wisp of the Prophet’s sword, there is written: The most insolent of people is that who beats other than the one who beat him and kill other than the one who killed him. He who votes for other than his true masters are disbelieving in what God has revealed to His Prophet Muhammad (S). As for those who bring a heresiarch matter or shelter an originator of a heresy, God will not accept their...

Block 38:
  , after the acknowledgement of God, the best acts of the offertory to God are the prayers, piety to the parents, and evasion of envy, self-conceit, and pride....

Block 39:
  , get ready for your coming days and prepare the answers for them. You will be inevitably judged and interrogated. Learn lessons from this world and its people. This life is surely long and short. You should act as if you can see the rewards of your acts in your hands, so that you will be urged acting so more importunately. Understand God’s commandments and learn from the changeability of this wor...

Block 40:
  , all people look at the stars, but no one can realize their ways and places except those who have full acquaintance with astronomy. In like fashion, you all study wisdom, but no one can beneﬁt by it except those who apply it practically....

Block 41:
  , the Christ (‘a) said to his disciples: O bad servants, the height of a palm tree terriﬁes you as you remember its thorns and the difﬁculty of climbing it, but you forget its good fruits and beneﬁts. The same thing is said about the world. As you remember the supplies of the acts of the world to come, you remember its long time and forget the bliss, illumination, and fruits that you will obtain t...

Block 42:
  , the following is written in the Bible: Blessed be those who treat each other mercifully, for they will be treated mercifully on the Day of Resurrection. Blessed be the makers of peace between people, for they will be exclusively favored on the Day of Resurrection. Blessed be the pure-hearted, for they will be the pious on the Day of Resurrection. Blessed be the modest in this world, for they wil...

Block 43:
  , fewness of wording is a great wisdom. You should keep silent, for it is a good charity, a little burden, and a lightness of the sins. Fortify the door of self-possession because patience is the door of self-possession. God the Majestic surely hates those who laugh motivelessly and those who walk aimlessly. The rulers should be acting like the shepherds whose eyes are not turned away from their h...

Block 44:
  , learn whatever you ignore and teach the ignorant your knowledge. Respect the scholars for their knowledge and avoid disputing with them, and disrespect the ignorant for their ignorance and do not dismiss them. You should approximate and teach them....

Block 45:
  , the favors that you do not thank God for them are as same as the sins for which you will be punished. Amir al-Mu’minin (‘a) said: There are the slaves of God whose hearts are broken due to fearing Him. Hence, they keep silent while they are eloquent and intelligent. They compete with each other on offering the pure deeds to God. They do not content with their many deeds and do not accept for the...

Block 46:
  , pudency is a part of faith and faith is a part of Paradise while obscenity is a part of aversion and aversion is in Hell....

Block 47:
  , speakers are one of three: winning, safe, or perishing. The winning speakers are those who [[p 293]] mention God. The safe speakers are those who keep silent. The perishing speakers are those who are engaged in bad wording. God has certainly forbidden Paradise from including the impudent speakers of bad wording who do not care for what they say and what is said about them. Abu Dharr (God please ...

Block 48:
  , the worst servants (of God) are those who are two-faced and two-tongued. They are those who praise their friends when they meet them and backbite them when they are absent. They envy their friends who obtain graces and disappoint them when they are suffering a misfortune. Charity is the foremost in rewarding and oppression is the foremost in punishment. The most vicious slaves of God are those w...

Block 49:
  , you will not be true believer unless to are fearful (of God’s punishment) and hopeful (for God’s reward). You will not be true fearful and true hopeful unless you avoid what you fear and work for what you hope....

Block 50:
  , God the Majestic says: I swear by My majesty, glory, might, potency, magniﬁcence, and elevation, for the servants who prefer My biddings to their biddings, I will install opulence in their minds, make the world to come their concern, take the charge of saving their livelihood, make their provisions in the heavens and the earth, and guarantee their shares of proﬁts in every transaction.”...

Block 51:
  , anger is the key to every evil. The most perfect faithful believers are the most well- mannered. If possible, you should associate only with those whom you have done favors....

Block 52:
  , lenience is felicity and clumsiness is evil portent. Lenience, charity, and well mannerism boom the lodgings and increase the provisions....

Block 53:
  , God says: Can anything else be a response to a favor but a favor? (55:60). This holy saying is applicable to the believers and the disbelievers and the charitable and the lecherous. He whom has been done a favor should reward for it. To do favor to that who did you favor is not a suitable reward, because he will have the merit of commencing with doing the favor before you. [[p 294]]...

Block 54:
  , the like of this world is the snake—it is soft to the touch but bearing poison in the interior. The intelligent men fear the snake while the boys hurry to take it by the hands....

Block 55:
  , be tolerant in the acts of obedience to God and be steadfast against the acts of disobedience to Him. This world is no more than an hour. You will not ﬁnd the pleasures of what has passed away and you will not be able to recognize what is coming. Be patient in that hour and you will attain bliss....

Block 56:
  , the like of this world is the seawater—it leads the thirsty to more thirst until it kills him....

Block 57:
  , beware of arrogance. He who feels arrogant, even if as small as a grain of mustard seed, in the heart will not see Paradise. Pride is God’s dress and God will surely overturn those who try to take off His dress on the faces in Hell....

Block 58:
  , he who does not settle an account with himself every day, so that he would seek more of the good deeds and seek God’s forgiveness and acceptance of repentance for the bad deeds, is not one of us....

Block 59:
  , the world came to the Christ (‘a) in the form of a blue lady. He asked her, ‘How many men did you marry?’ ‘Many,’ answered the world. ‘Did they all divorce you?’ asked the Christ. ‘No,’ she replied, ‘I killed all of them.’ the Christ said, ‘Woe to the rest of your husbands. Why do they not learn lessons from the past ones?’...

Block 60:
  , the light of the body is in the eyes. If the sight is luminous, the whole body will be bright. The light of the spirit is in the brain. If the servant is intelligent, he will be having acknowledgement of his Lord. If he has acknowledgement of his Lord, he will see his religion obviously. If he ignores the affairs of his Lord, he will be having no religion. Like the body that does not live withou...

Block 61:
  , plants grow in plain, not rocky, lands. In the same way, wisdom will grow in the hearts of the modest, not the arrogant, because God has made modesty the instrument of the mind and made arrogance the instrument of ignorance. Do you not notice that he who raises the head to the ceiling will have his head broken? Likewise, he who hands down will enjoy the shades and the protection of the ceiling. ...

Block 62:
  , how ugly poverty after richness is! How ugly the commitment of sins after religious-ness is! Moreover, to leave the adoration of God after worship is uglier than the previous....

Block 63:
  , except for either a heedful listener or a speaker of knowledge, life is surely worthless....

Block 64:
  , God has not distributed among the servant anything better than intelligence. The sleep of the intelligent is preferred to the staying up of the ignorant. God speciﬁed intelligence as a qualiﬁcation of [[p 295]] the prophets so that their minds will be preferred to all of the efforts of the diligent ones together. A servant will not fulﬁll any of God’s rights before he understands it....

Block 65:
  , the Prophet (S) said: You should approach the silent believer, because he will surely provide you with wisdom. The faithful believer should talk very little and act very much. The hypocrite talks very much and acts very little....

Block 66:
  , God the Exalted revealed to David the prophet (‘a): Ask My servants not to make between them and Me scholars that are seduced by the worldly pleasures. They will surely preclude the servants from mentioning Me and block the way to My adoration and supplication. Such scholars are the bandits of My servants. The least thing that I will do to them is that I will take the charm of My adoration and s...

Block 67:
  , the angels of the heavens and the angels of the earth will curse those who feel self-conceit. He who treats his friends arrogantly and haughtily is certainly opposing God. He who claims falsely is dragging himself away from his good....

Block 68:
  , God the Exalted revealed to David the prophet (‘a): O David, warn and advise your companions against the fondness of passions. The hearts of those who are fond of passions are certainly screened from Me....

Block 69:
  , beware of showing pride to my disciples and using your knowledge against them lest, God will hate you and, then, neither your world nor will your world to come stead you. Regard this world as a temporary lodging that you are waiting for leaving it....

Block 70:
  , to sit to the religious is the honor of this world and the world to come and to counsel with the intelligent and the well-wishers is good omen, blessing, rationality, and success from God. Beware of opposing the advice of the intelligent and the well-wishers to avoid perdition....

Block 71:
  , beware of associating with everybody except the intelligent and the trustful. You should be friendly with these two persons only. You should escape the others like escaping from beasts. The intelligent should be too ashamed from God to associate others in the intent of his deed, because God is the only endower of the graces. If you encounter two matters that you ignore which of them is the most ...

Block 72:
  , the fear of the world to come will remove from the hearts of those who favor the worldly pleasures. He who favors the worldly affairs whenever he receives more knowledge will be remoter and remoter from God and God will consequently intensify His wrath on him....

Block 73:
  , the true intelligent is that who avoids what he cannot do. Most of correctitude lies in opposing the passions. For those who depend upon hopes, their deeds will be worse....

Block 74:
  , if you consider the march of the death, you will be diverted from hopes....

Block 75:
  , beware of greed. Never expect having what is in people’s hands. Deaden your expectation from the creatures. Certainly, greed is the key to humiliation. It reduces the mind, kills the acts of personality, soils the honors, and cancels knowledgeability. Abide by adherence and depending upon God. Strive your whims so as to prevent your essence from ruination. This is as obligatory as striving the e...

Block 76:
  , God is surely doing great favors to those whom He endows with a mind that controls their whims, knowledge that controls their ignorance, and opulence that controls their poverty....

Block 77:
  , beware of this world and its people. People are four classes: one is falling behind as he is embracing his whims, one is self-conceited due to his knowledge and the more he learns, the more [[p 297]] arrogant he becomes. He towers up conceitedly before the less knowledgeable due to his being more learned. One (of the four classes) is ignorant worshipper who looks disgracefully to the less dutifu...

Block 78:
  , discern the mind and its soldiers and the ignorance and its soldiers and you will be guided. Husham said: I said, ‘May God make me your sacriﬁce. We will not know unless you instruct us. Hence, the Imam (‘a) answered:...

Block 79:
  , the ﬁrst thing of the mystical creatures that God created was the mind. He was on the right side of the Divine Throne. As God asked him to go, he went. As He asked him to come, he came. Hence, God the Majestic said: I created you as great and preferred you to all of My creatures. Then God created ignorance from the gloomy salty ocean and asked it to go, and it went. But when God asked him to com...

Block 80:
  , these good attributes cannot come together in a personality other than the personalities of the prophets, their successors, or faithful believers who passed God’s exam of faith. The other believers should have some of the soldiers of the mind so that they will have a perfect intelligence and get rid of the soldiers of ignorance. Only then, they may catch the highest rank of the prophets and thei...

